School was a paradise for kids. Or so I thought. “Mama, when can I go to school?” I must have asked my mother that question a thousand times — until the day finally came in 1965. I was seven years old and about to enter Primary 1. Then came a rude shock. In fact, a series of rude shocks. My mother took me to school and to a classroom packed with more than 30 other children. Many boys and girls started to cry. Why are they crying? When will we start to play?
When class started, the teacher asked each of us to write letters of the alphabet on the blackboard. I could not even write “A”. The rest of the class laughed at me. During recess, I queued to buy noodles with the precious five-cent coin that my father had given me. When I got to the front, I was told that a bowl of noodles cost 10 cents. I was shocked and sad. I would be able to buy a bowl of noodles only every other day. I saw a water tap at one corner of the canteen. As I drank
I saw, from the corner of my eye, two kids licking rainbow coloured ice-cream. I looked up and I saw them all. There was a long queue at the ice-cream stall. I thought ice-cream was a luxury item which only the rich could afford. These kids were taking ice-cream as freely as I took water from the tap. I learnt a great deal at school, not about English or Arithmetic, but about the have’s and have-not’s. I knew my family was poor. I thought the whole neighbourhood was poor. I learnt that even among the poor, some could afford ice-cream while others could not.
When my younger brother, Little Emperor, went to school the following year, he was given 20 cents daily pocket money. I continued to get five cents until I reached Primary 4, when my allowance was raised to 10 cents. My father was blatantly prejudiced against me. He hated me. He called me suay kia, which, in the Chinese Hokkien dialect, means “child who brings bad luck”. I was his jinx. He would cane his children whenever he was drunk, had lost in gambling, or both. Sometimes, he would strip us naked, tie us up and hang us from a ceiling hook in the living room before caning us.
These were outlets for his frustration. He was deeply frustrated because he had sailed from China to Singapore in search of the good life, but ended up earning a meagre wage as a coolie. Much later, after his death, I was to discover that he had also left behind another family in China. This obviously added to his frustration. He would cane us until the cane split, until our skins split. He would cane his “jinx” more than any other child. Once, he produced a bunch of burning incense and poked them into my face. But he never once caned the Little Emperor, whom he loved. Gambling and the 3 V’s
When I was eight, my family moved to a neighbourhood notorious for its gangsters. And so I became a “gangster kid” addicted to gambling and the 3 V’s — vulgarism, vandalism and violence. Whenever I heard my gambling gang’s special signal — the whistle from the theme music of the movie, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly — I would throw down my books and rush off to gamble. I would gamble even on the eve of my examinations. So, needless to say, I did badly in my studies, scoring as little as 22 marks for Mathematics, 19 marks for English. 
Yet my mother constantly nagged me to become a top student. Her relatives and friends had always looked down on her because her children did badly in school. By the time I was 14, all my brothers had dropped out of school. I became my mother’s last hope to redeem her years of humiliation. Black Socks My most traumatic experience in school, however, had nothing to do with failing examinations and disappointing my mother. It had to do with black socks. “Who says you can wear long black socks to school?” Miss Tigress, my teacher in Primary 3, shouted at me one afternoon.
“My white socks are still wet.” “You mean you only have one pair of socks?” I nodded and decided to tell it all — about how my parents could not even afford to buy me a pair of slippers, how I had to sell my favourite pet, a champion fighting spider, to buy my own slippers, how I had just one pair of white socks. Before I could even get to the part about the spider, Miss Tigress chased me out of the classroom, ordered me to take off my shoes and told me to walk round the school field until she allowed me to stop. I walked for what seemed like hours. I was not allowed to
go for my recess. During recess, hundreds of children were watching me being punished. I could hear jeers, whistles and laughter. My self-esteem sank to its lowest. It would take me another 17 years — when I topped my class in postgraduate studies, not once but twice — before I regained my self-confidence. Rough Life to Rich Life The transformation of my rough life into a rich life began in Secondary 1. Most of my gambling gang had failed Primary 6 and left school. My contact with them gradually decreased. In school, the physical education teacher was a boxing enthusiast 
and a good storyteller. He was my favourite teacher. He would captivate us with stories about the achievements of Muhammed Ali and other sports personalities. I was inspired to want to be like them. Once, the teacher organised a tug-of-war. My team emerged as the champion and I was delighted. I was flattered when the teacher nicknamed me “Strong Boy”. This was my first nickname that affirmed a good attribute. And I wanted to be known as a “Good Boy” too. I wanted to get rid of the 3 V’s and gambling. I decided to first tackle vulgarism. I told my friends and
brothers that if they should hear a single vulgar word from me, I would have to pay them five cents. All the five cents quickly added up and I began to accumulate debts. It took me several months to pay up and to stop my vulgarism. This was a small, but important, victory for me. Gambling was the toughest vice to give up. I finally quit the habit only several years later, when I was at pre-university. 


        Class Monitor
        In Secondary 3, I was appointed class monitor. I felt proud
        to be selected. When I went home that day, I could not wait
        to tell my mother the good news.
           “There is nothing great to be a class monitor. Show me your
        excellent examination results. Better still, top the class!” My
        mother’s words hit me like a ton of bricks. I was shocked. She
        demanded only academic excellence. Nothing else would
        satisfy her.
           I was also chosen to represent my school in badminton.
        With affirmations such as these, my grades improved. I rose
        to become the second top student in class! I told my mother,
        but this time without expecting any praise from her. After
        all, I was only the second top student in my class, not the top
        student in my school — which was not a prestigious school
        anyway. True enough, my mother was not happy. But I was.
           I spent my school vacation at the library reading autobi-
        ographies of great people — Mao Zedong, Chiang Kai Shek,
        Suharto, Golda Meir, Josef Stalin and others. I wanted to
        know the secrets behind their success and greatness, but
        I never really learnt any secrets.
           In Secondary 4, I was again made the class monitor. This
        time, I was elected by my class, not appointed by the teacher.
        It was a testimony to my leadership. I felt motivated to rise
        to greater heights.
           I was also appointed captain of the school badminton
        team. I felt proud to be a “shortie” leading a team of tall
b566v2_Chapter-03.qxd   3/4/2008   3:33 PM    Page 23
                                                                           FA


                                             Red Marks to Flying Colours   23

        badminton players! My euphoria got the better of me and I
        told my mother. She gave me a look of contempt! She
        reminded me that I was her last hope and that nothing was
        more important than excellent academic results.


        Life Decisions
        Secondary 4 was when I had to make two major decisions.
        First, I decided to drop one subject, Geography, and take
        only six subjects for the year-end GCE O-Level examina-
        tions. I wanted to focus on the other subjects as I needed
        only my five best subjects, including English, to qualify for
        pre-university.
           Another, bigger decision had to do with Rachael, a foreign
        student who was rumoured to be a rich tycoon’s daughter.
        She had always been nice to me. At the end of Secondary 3,
        Rachael invited me to spend the vacation with her in
        Indonesia. I turned her down because I had no money and
        she was visibly disappointed.
           Now, Rachael dropped another bombshell. She said her
        parents would be sending her to the United States for fur-
        ther studies and that I would make her very happy if I could
        join her!
           I was stunned. I had never thought of studying overseas.
        The thought of it absolutely thrilled me. Quickly however,
        reality got the better of me: money. As if she could read my
        mind, Rachael said her father had already agreed to extend a
b566v2_Chapter-03.qxd   3/4/2008   3:33 PM   Page 24
        FA


        24   SUCCESS SECRETS

        loan to me. She added that there was no condition whatso-
        ever attached to the loan.
           I could not sleep for the next few nights. I had to tell my
        mother about Rachael’s offer.
           My mother reminded me that every loan carried an obli-
        gation. She also wanted me to know that a man must be able
        to earn his own keep and not rely on a woman. There was
        nothing proud about being successful if it was due to a girl’s
        help. A man must have “backbone”.
           Thus, my mother made her position very clear. I must rely
        on my own means if I wanted to study overseas. Otherwise,
        I would bring her shame, not glory. I was in a dilemma. It
        had become a choice between backbone and a once-in-a-
        lifetime opportunity.
           I chose backbone. And I never saw Rachael again.


        First Zero
        I made it to Hwa Chong Junior College, one of Singapore’s
        top junior colleges for pre-university studies. I was euphoric,
        little realising that I was about to enter the darkest period of
        my life.
            The first signs of trouble came when I could not decide on
        my course of study. I started off in the Arts stream, switched
        to Science, switched again to Commerce, returned to Arts,
        before finally settling in Commerce — all within three
        months.
b566v2_Chapter-03.qxd   3/4/2008   3:33 PM    Page 25
                                                                           FA


                                             Red Marks to Flying Colours   25

           Greater trouble arose when I received a zero for a
        Mathematics test. It was my first zero. That was the price
        I paid for devoting my energy to badminton when I was
        already weak in my studies.
           I felt depressed. I was reminded of how lousy my life had
        been all along. And so a study crisis escalated into a life crisis.
        I felt suicidal.
           My way of coping with depression was to go to the beach
        and throw stones into the sea, each stone representing one
        of my troubles. I would stay at the beach till late and catch
        the last bus home. Many times, I did not want to go home.
        I wanted to walk into the water and disappear into the
        darkness.
           One night, it dawned on me that my father’s harsh treat-
        ment had made me a modern-day Spartan. He had devel-
        oped in me the mental strength to pull through a crisis such
        as this. My mother’s love was not enough. I also needed my
        father’s toughening.
           My spirits lifted when I thought that an answer had come.
        The navy was recruiting. I cut out the advertisement and
        thought each night about giving up my studies and joining
        the navy.


        An Angel Appears
        I was about to submit my application when Diana, my col-
        lege mate, asked if I would like to talk to her. She had
b566v2_Chapter-03.qxd   3/4/2008   3:33 PM   Page 26
        FA


        26   SUCCESS SECRETS

        observed that I seemed troubled. I poured out all my trou-
        bles to Diana. I told her about my difficulties, especially in
        Mathematics, and also that I was considering quitting stud-
        ies to join the navy.
           Diana promised that after the examinations, she would
        revise all the Mathematics principles with me. With her help,
        I passed my Mathematics re-examination and proceeded to
        my second year.
           I studied exceptionally hard in Pre-University 2. As my
        home was very noisy, I stayed back illegally in college and
        studied there. About 20 students were doing the same thing —
        until the principal conducted a series of night raids. I had a
        close shave.
           I had to find another alternative. I decided to sleep early,
        at 7 p.m., and wake up to study at 2 a.m. when the rest of the
        family was asleep. I kept to this schedule for about six
        months. During this period, I was like a zombie. Some of my
        friends thought I was on drugs.


        Smooth Sailing
        I barely made it to university, but surprisingly, found uni-
        versity life relatively smooth sailing. For the first time, I
        enjoyed studying.
           The only activity I joined was a study group. There were
        four of us in total. Each person would focus on the topic that
        he was strong in and brief the rest on it. We never went out
b566v2_Chapter-03.qxd   3/4/2008   3:33 PM    Page 27
                                                                           FA


                                             Red Marks to Flying Colours   27

        for meals, movies or other recreation until after the exami-
        nations. We kept together throughout the three years of uni-
        versity; we never admitted new members.
           I was considered one of the better students in class and
        I could even help the weaker students. In spite of this, my
        first year grades were mediocre, only two B’s. My “so-so”
        performance was partly due to complacency, partly due to
        the fact that my study methods had not changed from
        before. I was still relying a lot on memorising and last-
        minute revisions.
           Gradually, I improved my study methods and my grades.
        In my second year, I scored two A’s and a “Fail” — again, due
        to complacency. In the third year, my grades were similar to
        those of the brightest member in my study group. He was
        offered the fourth year honours degree course, but I was not.
        I must have barely missed it.
           I was hoping that, by improving my study methods, I
        would make that quantum leap to become a top student, but
        it did not happen. I still could not fulfil my mother’s life-
        long yearning. I had to wait for the next opportunity.


        Flying Colours
        Whilst serving as a navy captain after my university studies,
        I was sponsored to do a diploma in Personnel Management.
        In this, I discovered my passion and life vocation. At univer-
        sity, I had found this subject dry and boring. Now, however,
b566v2_Chapter-03.qxd   3/4/2008   3:33 PM   Page 28
        FA


        28   SUCCESS SECRETS

        my lecturers were totally practical in their focus and they
        helped me see Personnel Management in an entirely different
        light. I found it fascinating.
           Whilst still pursuing the diploma programme, George
        Washington University offered, for the first time in Singapore
        as an external degree, its Master of Arts in Human Resource
        Development. This was no ordinary master’s degree. The
        programme director, Professor Leonard Nadler, was regarded
        as the “father of human resource development”.
           I knew it would be tough to do two postgraduate pro-
        grammes concurrently whilst holding a full-time job. I
        thought hard about it and decided to give myself the chal-
        lenge — and the stress.
           The master’s programme was being offered to mature stu-
        dents with many years of work experience. I was a junior
        naval officer with minimal work experience. To gain accept-
        ance into the course, I asked the Head Naval Personnel to
        write a letter of recommendation.
           Next, I learnt that I absolutely needed to take leave from
        work during the assessment and examination periods.
        Skipping class was totally out of the question. In the navy,
        however, guaranteed leave was also totally out of the ques-
        tion. I could be recalled at any time for operational reasons.
        I thus requested to see the Commander, the highest ranking
        officer. My supervisor was stunned. It was like asking to see
        the God of Gods!
           The Commander initially asked me to give up the pro-
        gramme. I explained the situation and I asked him to give
b566v2_Chapter-03.qxd   3/4/2008   3:33 PM    Page 29
                                                                           FA


                                             Red Marks to Flying Colours   29

        me “moral encouragement” by granting leave as and when I
        needed it. He finally agreed.
           I went to the course fully confident, as I was then scoring
        mostly A’s in my diploma programme. I thought I knew
        exactly what to do. I was badly mistaken.
           During my first individual presentation, I performed so
        badly that I wanted to give up. I was bombarded with many
        questions that I could not answer, including questions that
        I did not even understand. The episode left me shaken.
           I was not alone in feeling the pressure. Before the first four
        modules of the programme were completed, six out of the
        original 30 students had dropped out.
           My classmates, many of whom were corporate high-flyers,
        tended to look down on me. They would not team up with
        me for group projects as they feared I would drag down their
        scores. I had to be assigned to groups by the programme
        director. When I received the result for my first module, I was
        surprised. I got an A. But I continued to have difficulties
        with my classmates.
           Once, I was involved in a group presentation about moti-
        vation. I hold the view that motivation has to come solely
        from within. Outsiders can offer incentives, but they cannot
        motivate. My group members would not accept my view-
        point. But when I got my report back, Prof Nadler agreed
        with me.
           Another time, I had a group leader with a domineering
        personality. One day, he mentioned using “exercises” to illus-
        trate certain learning experiences. I asked to clarify what he
b566v2_Chapter-03.qxd   3/4/2008   3:33 PM   Page 30
        FA


        30   SUCCESS SECRETS

        meant as, in the military, “exercises” involved the deploy-
        ment of troops. My question annoyed him and our discus-
        sion became heated, so I requested a 10-minute break “to
        gain new inspiration”.
           During the break, the other group members commended
        me for having the courage to speak up. They dared not offend
        him. I was shocked. They were all senior corporate man-
        agers, yet they dared not speak up against a fellow classmate
        who had no power over us.
           The course culminated in a consolidated examination that
        tested our familiarity with the subjects taught in the 11 pre-
        vious modules. This was the ultimate test. We not only had
        to be familiar with all the subjects, but also with how they
        inter-related with one another.
           A “Fail” in this paper would mean a “Fail” in the entire
        course. Two of my classmates did fail. So, of the 30 who
        joined the course, six had dropped out and two failed, leaving
        22 to graduate. The two later sat for a re-examination and
        graduated as well.
           Having persevered to do well in every module, I felt
        mentally prepared for the consolidated examination. There
        was no subject that I was weak in. I had scored A’s in 10 of
        the 11 modules.
           I passed the consolidated paper and topped my class. I did
        my mother proud. She achieved her Prizedream, because I
        had adopted it as my Prizedream.
           Yet, it was not just me who passed. The PRAISE life skills
        model that I developed passed as well — with flying colours.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 31
                                                                  FA




                                     4
        The SUCCESS 6 Formula


        There is a difference between the “person who succeeds” and
        the “successful person”. The person who succeeds might also
        fail. There is no clear pattern of success and no guarantee
        that he or she will recover from setbacks. A successful per-
        son, however, consistently succeeds. There is a clear pattern
        of success. Even if that person fails, he or she would bounce
        back and rise to higher levels of success.
           PRAISE is a life skills model that will help develop you as
        a successful person. It embodies six key concepts for success:

        •   P rizedream
        •   Rules
        •   Analysis
        •   I nvincibility
        •   S trategy
        •   E xcellence


                                       31
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 32
        FA


        32   SUCCESS SECRETS

        Before I developed PRAISE, I made only slow and steady
        progress. The PRAISE model propelled me to the top and
        helped me stay there!
          PRAISE offers what I call the SUCCESS 6 Formula:

        • S et the P rizedream. This will initiate the process of change
          and lead you to discover a lifetime CHANGE formula.
        • U se internal R ules. Learn to think out of the box. This
          gives you a lifetime CREATIVITY formula.
        • C onduct Analysis. Examine the factors for or against
          you. Find your higher cause. This is your lifetime PASSION
          formula.
        • C ultivate I nvincibility. Acquire the virtues that lead to
          invincibility. These give you a lifetime FULFILMENT formula.
        • E xecute the S trategy. Turn weaknesses into strengths, set-
          backs into opportunities. This is your lifetime LEARNING
          formula.
        • S ustain E xcellence. Achieve it over and over again in a
          cycle of unlimited success. Acquire a lifetime EXCELLENCE
          formula.

          S uccess shall be yours, without limits.
           Before we apply PRAISE, we must watch for the six nega-
        tive influences that spell out the word SADDLE:

        • Self-pity
        • Arrogance
        • D istractions
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd    3/10/2008    9:57 AM   Page 33
                                                                          FA


                                                  The SUCCESS 6 Formula    33

        • Daydreams
        • Laziness
        • Exaggerated fear

        SADDLE influences block our path to excellence and success.


        Prizedream
        The Prizedream is the true motivator. It is a desire so strong
        that you will do whatever it takes to make it come true,
        including working hard and making sacrifices. It is so valu-
        able that you will never give up trying to achieve it. True, you
        might feel discouraged along the way. But you will always
        find renewed strength.
           The Prizedream is the beginning of change. All change
        begins with a vision. The Prizedream provides us with a life-
        time CHANGE formula.
           Do not worry about having          The Prizedream is not a wish. If
        to work hard and struggle —           you merely wish to do well in
                                              your studies, you simply wait for
        the key is motivation. Once you       it to happen. This is not much
        are motivated, you will view          different from waiting to win the
        hard work and struggle differ-        lottery — it is a daydream.
        ently and you will come to not        Once you are motivated to put
                                              in your blood, sweat and tears
        mind them at all. Some stu-
                                              to make your wish come true, it
        dents are able to study late into     becomes a Prizedream!
        the night and, more impor-
        tantly, to study consistently throughout the year. Others
        might think that they are struggling. But if the student is
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd     3/10/2008     9:57 AM     Page 34
        FA


        34   SUCCESS SECRETS

        working towards a Prizedream, perhaps to win a scholarship,
        then it is not a struggle.
           Of course, the body has its limits and there will come a
        time when, no matter how big your Prizedream, you will feel
        the strain. You need to take a break and rest.
           If you are realistic about achieving your Prizedream, you
        will adopt a balanced approach to keep your body healthy
        and your mind alert. You will take care to avoid stress and
        emotional upsets, and not push yourself to the point of
        exhaustion.


        Dream big, start small
          “To those of you who received honours, awards and distinctions, I say
          ‘Well done’. And to the C students, I say: ‘You, too, can be president of
          the United States.’”

                                               — George W. Bush, US President


          “You see things; and you say, ‘why?’ But I dream things that never were;
          and I say, ‘Why not?’”

                                            — George Bernard Shaw, playwright


        The prize or reward must be big enough to motivate you to
        work hard, yet not be so big that the very thought of it
        frightens you and makes you give up before even trying. For
        example, if you are currently failing in school, the thought of
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 35
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   35

        becoming a top student or winning a scholarship may be too
        big a Prizedream.
           So set yourself a smaller Prizedream first. Aim to pass your
        examinations. When you are able to pass, aim to do well.
        Then once you are able to do reasonably well, aim to excel.
           Dream big. But start small. Set the big dream aside. Leave
        it at the back of your mind. One day, you will be ready for it.



                            Prizedreamers
          Agnes Gonxha Bojaxhiu had a small Prizedream: to
          serve “the poorest of the poor”. Her pursuit of this
          humblest of dreams made her one of the most highly
          respected and best loved women of modern times, bet-
          ter known as Mother Teresa.

          Cliff Young was never too old to have a Prizedream. As
          a 61-year-old potato farmer, he dreamed of winning the
          1983 inaugural Sydney-Melbourne Ultra Marathon, a
          race that would cover 875 km and be subsequently
          hailed as one of the world’s greatest running races.
              Instead of running, he “shuffled” in a half-run, half-
          walk gait. He was laughed at, jeered at and thought to be
          crazy. Yet he not only won the race, beating 149 world-
          class athletes, but won it by a staggering nine hours!
                                                       (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd     3/10/2008      9:57 AM     Page 36
        FA


        36   SUCCESS SECRETS



                                  (Continue d )

          Paulo Coelho is the Brazilian author of The Alchemist,
          a book described as “a fable about following your
          dreams”. Yet, he nearly abandoned his own Prizedeam.
              On the eve of his 30th birthday, Coelho gave up his
          dream of becoming a writer. He was, at that time, both
          successful and happy as a music producer. The next
          morning, he was fired with no reasons given. For the
          next two years, he could not find a similar job.
              Thus, he returned to writing. The Alchemist became
          one of the most successful books of modern times. To
          date, Coelho has published 15 book titles, with 380
          translations and worldwide sales of over 75 million
          copies. A Reuters news report in 2003 named Coelho as
          one of the three most successful authors today.


        Rules
          “I don’t go by the rule book. I lead from the heart, not the head.”

                                             — Princess Diana, Princess of Wales

          “There are no rules here, we are trying to accomplish something.”

                                                     — Thomas Edison, inventor

          “Rules are not necessarily sacred. Principles are.”

                                  — Franklin D. Roosevelt, former US President
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 37
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   37

        Rules are commonly viewed as external rules imposed upon
        us — school rules, the laws of a country, social norms and so
        on. Thus, many people dislike rules. They feel that rules
        restrict freedom and stifle creativity.
           But rules are meaningful. What would soccer be like if the
        game is played without rules? What would tennis, badminton,
        chess, Scrabble, or any other sport or game be like? We enjoy
        these games because there are rules.
           Rules also force us to think of creative solutions. When we
        are restricted by rules, and have to find solutions within
        those restrictions, we become truly creative.
           The haiku, a form of verse that originated in Japan, has
        very restrictive rules. It is written in three lines, with five
        syllables in the first line, seven in the second, and five in the
        third. This requires more creativity than writing any number
        of words, in any style.
           Thus, rules provide us with a lifetime CREATIVITY formula.


        Internal rules
        We also have rules that we impose upon ourselves. These are
        our internal rules. Often, they are more important than the
        external rules, because our internal rules have a greater bear-
        ing on our lives.
          Everyone has internal rules about punctuality. Maybe
        your rule is that it is okay to be 10 minutes late. For another
        person, the internal rule is that he must be on time. So if you
        turn up 10 minutes late, the other person will be upset, as
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 38
        FA


        38    SUCCESS SECRETS

        your internal rules are different. We have our own rules
        about everything — about honesty, punctuality, courtesy,
        respect, friendship, money, work and so on.
           So what are your rules? Do your rules help you achieve
        your goals in life? Do they help you become who you want
        to be?
           Let’s say you want to do well in your studies, but your
        internal rules say it is okay to relax and take things easy. Will
        you do well? Not likely. If you want to do well, you need to
        change your internal rules.
           The PRAISE model recommends these five internal rules:

        •    Be different
        •    Be decisive
        •    Take control
        •    Never give up
        •    Take ownership

          When we live by these five internal rules, we can overcome
        many obstacles in life, including obstacles presented by
        external rules.


        Be different
        If you look around you, you will see that most people are
        average. Whether you are in school, college, university or
        doing postgraduate studies, it is usually the same case.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008    9:57 AM   Page 39
                                                                        FA


                                                The SUCCESS 6 Formula    39

        Look also at your own life up to now. Have you also been
        average?
           If you want to excel, you need to be different from what
        you used to be; you need to be different from most other
        people. If you always studied at the last minute, try study-
        ing consistently throughout the year. If you always kept
        quiet during class discussions, try taking on a more active
        role. If you always study late at night, try going to sleep
        early and studying in the morning. If you always study
        alone, see if joining a study group can be helpful.
           There is no single way that suits everyone. But if what you
        had been doing did not help you, then you need to find
        another way.
           Being different also means daring to go against norms and
        expectations. If you come from a family of doctors, will you
        study medicine simply because it is expected of you? Do you
        dare to study something different?
           Don’t be different just for the sake of being different.
        Search yourself deeply and ask, is this what you really want?
        Will you be willing to accept the difficulties when they arise?
        If your answer is yes, by all means go ahead. Follow your
        passion.
           In your soul searching, you might also realise that you had
        merely been entertaining some fanciful daydreams. In that
        case, you would do well to
                                               When you seek to be different,
        return to reality — and follow         do it for a good reason.
        the crowd!
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 40
        FA


        40   SUCCESS SECRETS



                          The Fosbury Flop
          American high jumper Dick Fosbury found the exist-
          ing high jump techniques to be too complicated. So
          he developed a new, radically different technique. He
          jumped backwards!
              As a university student, Fosbury won the National
          Collegiate Athletic Association championships in 1968.
          That same year, he created a sports sensation when he
          won the gold medal at the Mexico Olympics and set a
          new Olympic record.
              Today, almost all high jumpers use his technique.
          Despite its success, the technique is called, ironically,
          the Fosbury Flop!


        Be decisive
        Being decisive does not mean being hasty in making deci-
        sions. By all means, evaluate the situation properly before
        you decide. Once you have decided, be firm. Do not waver.
        Do not turn back — unless, of course, you realise you
        made a wrong decision. Once you have decided, there is no
        way of knowing “what if. . .” So don’t fret over it. Make the
        best of your decision.
           Indecisiveness is only natural when you are faced with a
        major turning point in life, such as when you have to decide
        what subjects to study, because that will decide your career
        and your life.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 41
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   41

           So yes, you may need to gather information and consult
        people in order to make an informed and well-considered
        decision. But there can be no end to this. You can keep find-
        ing out more information, keep hearing more opinions,
        until you become totally confused. At some point, you need
        to decide and move on. You will feel much better once you
        have decided — no matter what the decision is.

          Top golfer Tiger Woods was decisive when he changed
          his golf swing — the single most important factor that
          determines a golfer’s performance. Woods made the
          change in 2003 and had a disappointing year that sea-
          son. In 2004, he slipped to the No. 2 spot and even fell
          briefly to No. 3.
               However, Woods did not waver in his decision. He
          felt he had a fault in his technique and was playing well
          in spite of it. Then he made a spectacular comeback. By
          end-April 2005, Woods had regained his No. 1 spot. At
          the time of writing, in October 2006, Woods was still
          firmly in the top spot.


        Take control
        To take control means to create your own outcomes, rather
        than letting others decide what should happen to you.
           Two groups of people have influence over your life. The
        first group is made up of those in positions of power and
        authority, such as the government, school principal, teachers
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 42
        FA


        42   SUCCESS SECRETS

        and parents. For instance, the government decides which
        system of education the citizens of the country must follow.
        Some people who disagree migrate so that their children can
        undergo a different educational system. They thereby take
        control.
           Another group of people that might have an influence
        over your life, even though they may have no real power over
        you, are those who make up “the environment”, such as your
        family and friends.
           My home environment was very noisy, so I sought alter-
        native solutions to study. At first, I joined a group of friends
        in staying illegally overnight at the college. Later, I tried
        sleeping at 7 p.m. and waking up at 2 a.m. to study. I took
        control. I did not allow my family members to affect my
        studies.
           At university and even in secondary schools, a student’s
        work may involve team projects. Such teams are usually
        assigned by the teacher, so as a student, you may not have
        control over who you work with. However, you can still take
        control by assuming a leadership position. Even if you are
        not the team leader, you can participate actively in team dis-
        cussions and decision making. This way, you can steer the
        direction of the team.
           When you form your own study groups, you can choose
        the people whom you know (or believe) to be reliable. You
        can delegate tasks and feel confident that the group mem-
        bers will do a good job. This way, you take control without
        having to do the job yourself.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd    3/10/2008      9:57 AM    Page 43
                                                                                FA


                                                     The SUCCESS 6 Formula       43


          Actress Michelle Yeoh, known for her action films,
          believes in taking control. She performs nearly all the
          stunts in her films.
              This has earned her the highest respect from top film
          directors, producers and fellow movie stars on both sides
          of the Pacific — in Hollywood and Hong Kong. It also
          landed her top roles, such as in the James Bond movie,
          Tomorrow Never Dies, and the award-winning Chinese
          martial arts film, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.



        Never give up
          “Many of life’s failures are men who did not realise how close they were
          to success when they gave up.”

                                                    — Thomas Edison, inventor


        My masters degree course started off with 30 students.
        Before the first four (out of 11) modules, six students had
        given up and dropped out. Among those who stayed on,
        there might have been others who “gave up” indirectly by
        not putting in their best effort. My classmates were corpo-
        rate high-flyers with strong credentials. There was no rea-
        son for any of them to fail. Yet, two of them did.
           Two things helped me cultivate the “never give up” spirit.
        One was my father’s harsh treatment of me when I was
        young, which strengthened my will. Other forms of difficulty,
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 44
        FA


        44   SUCCESS SECRETS

        such as military or intensive sports training, can have a sim-
        ilar effect.
           Another, physically less demanding, factor came from
        reflection and inspiration. As I sat by the beach throwing
        stones into the sea, I observed the waves come and go. As one
        wave receded, another came forward. They seemed to be
        telling me never to give up.
           There may be times when you have made wrong decisions.
        But do not give up at the first signs of obstacles and setbacks.
        When you persevere in the face of setbacks, you will realise
        that they often provide valuable lessons for future challenges.


          Probably the most remarkable example of a person who
          never gave up in the face of rejection was Harland
          David Sanders. At 65, he was almost penniless as he
          travelled across the US to sell an idea that he had. He
          slept in his car to save money. Over a two-year period,
          he was rejected 1,008 times before the 1,009th person
          said “Yes”.
              If the name Sanders sounds familiar, it is because
          he is none other than “Colonel Sanders”, founder of
          Kentucky Fried Chicken.


        Take ownership
        Taking ownership means accepting responsibility for the
        outcome of your decisions and actions. It means not
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 45
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   45

        blaming others when things go wrong, while giving credit
        when things go right.
           If you have a habit of blaming others, you are giving them
        control over your life. Thus, if you are not happy, it is because
        your parents/teachers/classmates made you unhappy. If you
        are not successful, again, it is the fault of someone else.


                                Intel CEO
          In a dramatic display of taking ownership, Craig
          Barrett, Chief Executive Officer of Intel Corp, got down
          on his knees during an industry conference in October
          2004 and begged forgiveness for the company’s poor
          performance.
              Shares of Intel had lost 34 percent of their value
          during the year. Barrett admitted that the company’s
          managers had become “too relaxed” and that manage-
          ment missteps had caused five projects to be scrapped
          or delayed.

           My younger brother never learnt to take ownership of his
        failure in school. When he failed his examinations, my father
        blamed me for not setting him a good example. Later, my
        father hired tutors for him. When he again failed, it became
        the tutors’ turn to get blamed.
           It is natural to be influenced by other people. At university,
        I tended to do better when I found the lecturers interesting
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 46
        FA


        46   SUCCESS SECRETS

        compared to when I found the lecturers boring. However,
        other students could do well no matter how interesting or
        boring the lecturers were.
           If I want success, I have to create it for myself. Others can
        assist me, just as those lecturers who livened up their classes
        with stories and jokes had assisted me. But I cannot depend
        on them. I must be able to create my own success.
           When I received my first A in my master’s programme, I
        bought myself an expensive badminton racquet. That was
        my way of recognising my own achievement. It was my way
        of taking ownership.


        Analysis
        Analysis considers those factors that either help or obstruct
        your Prizedream. It looks at your gifts and talents, strengths
        and weaknesses, and also at how you lead others and man-
        age your resources.
           Some of these factors are within your control, such as
        the books you read or the friends you choose to spend time
        with. But even when other factors — such as physical
        disabilities — are beyond your control, you might still be
        able to minimise their effects.
           Analysis helps you discover the higher cause or inspira-
        tion that drives you forward. This is your passion. Thus,
        through analysis, you discover a lifetime PASSION formula.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 47
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   47

           Analysis helps in decision making. When I decided in
        Secondary 4 to drop Geography, it was the result of my
        analysis. Although Geography was one of my favourite sub-
        jects, I saw that it required a lot of memorising of facts,
        which was not my strong point.
           Often, people already have their minds made up, and if
        their analysis tells them that they had made a poor decision,
        they either ignore or play down the results of such analysis.
        This is not entirely wrong. Just because your analysis tells
        you that there will be problems ahead, it does not mean that
        you should abandon your plans. All it means is that you have
        to work harder, so that when the difficulties arise, you will
        face them fully prepared.
           A good analysis will not only reveal your strengths and
        weaknesses, but also where they come from. Perhaps you
        draw strength from exercise, eating healthy foods, visiting
        the beach, sleeping early, or from prayer, meditation and
        other spiritual practices. You feel good when you do such
        things. Do you do them often enough?
           When you analyse your weaknesses, you might also find
        out if they can be overcome. If you are weak in languages or
        at remembering facts and figures, is there anything you can
        do to improve yourself?
           What if you have a weakness that cannot be overcome?
        Well, you can choose a life path where your weaknesses do
        not matter. If you are extremely weak in your studies, are you
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd     3/10/2008     9:57 AM     Page 48
        FA


        48   SUCCESS SECRETS

        doomed? Of course not! You can still be a sportsman, an
        artist, a chef, even a businessman.


        Focus on strengths
          “We must look for the opportunity in every difficulty instead of being
          paralysed at the thought of the difficulty in every opportunity.”

                                            — Walter E. Cole, Korean War hero


        While you analyse your strengths and weaknesses, focus on
        your strengths. This does not mean that you should ignore
        your weaknesses. You need to know your weaknesses
        and try to eliminate them. Weaknesses, however, give you
        plenty of excuses. You may start to say, “Oh, I cannot do this
        and I cannot do that because I am weak.” When you focus on
        your strengths instead, you will stop giving yourself excuses
        and start to say, “I can do it!”


                         The sky’s the Limit
          New Zealand mountaineer Mark Inglis did not focus on
          his weakness — the fact that he has no legs. Both his legs
          were amputated below the knee in 1982 after suffering
          frostbite when he was trapped for 14 days in an ice cave.
                                                                  (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 49
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   49


                              (Continue d )

              In May 2006, Inglis became the first person to reach
          the top of Mount Everest, the world’s highest peak, with
          two artificial legs. Even when one of his artificial legs
          broke, Inglis shrugged off the mishap as “a minor
          hiccup”.

          Singaporean mountaineer David Lim, likewise, did
          not focus on his weakness. In 1998, Lim was stricken
          with Guillain–Barre Syndrome, a rare nerve disorder
          that left him paralysed from the eyes down. He spent
          six months in hospital and became partially dis-
          abled in both legs. In 1999, Lim resumed mountain
          climbing. Today, he is one of Singapore’s most active
          mountaineers, with more than 50 high mountain
          ascents.

          Another person who pushed his limits, literally to the
          sky, is British teenager Daniel Reilly. In 2005, at the age
          of 18, he started his own airline, operating out of his
          bedroom! Daniel explained: “The idea of setting up my
          own airline started as a joke when my friends said
          I should charge to fly people around. I put together a
          business plan and contacted a financial adviser and
          now it is really happening.”
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 50
        FA


        50    SUCCESS SECRETS

          In the PRAISE model, Analysis is adapted from the teach-
        ings of Sun Zi in The Art of War. Sun Zi advises us to analyse
        the following five factors:


        •    Cause
        •    Heaven
        •    Earth
        •    Command
        •    System

        These may sound abstract at first, but as we apply them to
        real-life examples, you will see that they are in fact very
        practical.


        Cause
        This is the inspiration — the higher reason — that motivates
        a person. If you want to do well in your studies, ask yourself:
        what is the higher cause that drives this desire? Why do you
        want to excel?
           When I was a playful child who strove to become “king” of
        various games, my Cause was to develop a sense of self-
        worth. I was very weak in my studies, so I tried to make up
        for it by excelling in games. Later, I set myself a new target —
        to become a top student in my postgraduate studies. I
        wanted to do it for my mother. I wanted to redeem the years
        of humiliation that she suffered when relatives and friends
        looked down on her. My mother was my Cause.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 51
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   51

           My mother had wanted me to be a top student all along.
        Now, I wanted to do it. I wanted to make up for all the times
        when I disappointed her. This was a crucial difference. Even
        though my mother was my Cause and inspiration, I myself
        wanted to do well.
           When a city bids to host a major event like the Olympic
        Games, the Cause might be to revive the city, to give it new
        life, boost the economy and bring it prestige and glory. This,
        however, is merely the Cause of the host city. In 2005, London
        won the bid to host the 2012 Olympics because it spelt out a
        greater, higher Cause — to revive interest in sports among
        young people. This was a Cause that the entire Olympic
        movement could identify with.


        Heaven
        Heaven may sound abstract at first, but think about what
        Heaven is. It is simply the larger external environment that
        we cannot change.
           We cannot change the Heavens, nor can we change the
        sun, the moon, the stars and the weather. But we can under-
        stand Heaven and prepare ourselves to cope better with it. If
        it is going to rain, we cannot stop the rain, but we can be
        ready with our umbrellas and raincoats.
           The education system is not something that you can eas-
        ily change. If you really want, you can study abroad, but this
        is not easy. Likewise, it is not easy to change your teachers. If
        they speak in a boring manner, you just have to make the
        best of the situation.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 52
        FA


        52   SUCCESS SECRETS

           What about your level of intelligence? Is it a fixed, Heaven
        factor, or can it be improved upon? This is a complex issue.
        There are different ways to measure intelligence — IQ tests,
        examination results, career success, and so on. My observa-
        tion is this: many people seem to stay at the same level —
        below average, average, or above average — throughout their
        lives. But some do manage to achieve major breakthroughs.
        In my case, I improved gradually and achieved my break-
        through when I did my postgraduate studies.
           There are also people who can improve overnight after
        attending self-improvement and mind development work-
        shops. I know of one child who improved her grades in
        Chinese language from fail to distinction through hypnother-
        apy! It may not be that the person actually becomes more
        intelligent, but more likely that certain mental blockages were
        removed. It has at least unlocked her hidden potential.
           The 26 December 2004 tsunami was a tragic case of peo-
        ple being unprepared for Heaven forces. Luckily, there was
        one young English schoolgirl on holiday in Phuket,
        Thailand, who had just learnt about tsunamis in her
        Geography lesson. When the sea suddenly receded, she
        understood what it meant and warned the people around
        her to run to higher ground. They were saved. The
        Geography lesson was the girl’s Heaven factor, while the
        girl’s presence was a Heaven factor for those around her.
           For the many others who went down to the beach to check
        out why the sea had suddenly dried up, their ignorance was
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 53
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   53

        their Heaven factor. Unfortunately, it resulted in their
        tragedy.
           Thus, Heaven factors have a certain element of “luck”. If
        your favourite topic comes out as an examination question,
        that is your good luck. But if you know that the examiner
        likes a certain topic and you prepare for it, and it gets asked
        as an examination question, that is your initiative. There is
        not much you can do about your luck, but there is a lot you
        can do about your preparedness and initiative.


                        Matsushita’s “Luck”
          Konosuke Matsushita grew up in poverty. He received
          limited education and, at age 9, had to leave his family
          to work in another city. When he was in his early 20s, he
          developed a serious lung illness and was advised by his
          doctors to rest for at least six months, but he could not
          afford that luxury.
              When Matsushita first set up his own company,
          Matsushita Electric, business was so bad that he nearly
          went bankrupt. After the Second World War, the com-
          pany was slapped with severe restrictions imposed by
          the Allied Forces.
              Yet, Matsushita always considered himself lucky. He
          not only accepted his fate, but always saw the positive
                                                        (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 54
        FA


        54   SUCCESS SECRETS



                               (Continue d )
          side of it. This is the spirit that helped him transform
          his tiny electrical workshop into one of the world’s
          biggest manufacturers of electrical appliances, known
          throughout the world today by its brand names that
          include National and Panasonic.


        Earth
        Unlike Heaven, we can change the Earth. We can flatten the
        land, clear the forest, build roads, plant trees, build dams,
        create lakes, divert waterways, and so on.
           In the PRAISE model, Earth refers to the immediate oper-
        ating environment and the resources available that may be
        within our control. It includes our family, social and working
        environments. These are factors we can change, or at least
        adapt to.
           If your family environment does not support you in achiev-
        ing your goals, you can work harder to enlist their support,
        or you can also “leave” your family temporarily. This may not
        be as drastic as it sounds. For example, if your home is noisy,
        you can go elsewhere to study. This is equivalent to tem-
        porarily “leaving” your family.
           Earth also refers to the social environment such as your
        network of friends, who can have a profound impact on
        you. At university, one of my classmates who did well in
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 55
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   55

        pre-university and in the officer cadet’s course in the navy,
        failed because he was constantly engaged in boy/girl rela-
        tionships.
           Of course, the impact could be just as great the other way
        around. One girl I know started off as an average student,
        but because her boyfriend was one of the top students, her
        grades improved and she ended up with a First Class
        Honours degree.


        Command
        Command refers to the leader’s ability to lead and inspire
        others. What has this to do with studies? First, you need to
        “command” yourself. You need to impose self-discipline so
        that you won’t be distracted or lazy.
           In general, whenever someone forces you to do some-
        thing, your natural response will be to resist. Likewise, when
        you force yourself, you will also resist. Therefore, you need to
        find a way to inspire yourself. Lead, don’t force, yourself to
        study. Then you will do it willingly and happily.
           How? Focus on your Prizedream. Think of the prize, the
        reward, that comes from studying hard and doing well.
        Alternatively, focus on your Cause, the higher reason that
        drives your passion.
           Command is also important when you interact with fel-
        low students, whether in group projects or in informal study
        groups. You need not be officially appointed as a group
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 56
        FA


        56   SUCCESS SECRETS

        leader. You can “lead” by being active in the group discus-
        sions, proposing good ideas, or volunteering for certain tasks
        instead of waiting to be assigned. You can also “lead” by
        asserting your rights as a member of the group, and not
        allowing the official leader to dominate unnecessarily.


          Florence Nightingale is famous for helping wounded
          soldiers during the Crimean War in 1854 and for mod-
          ernising the nursing profession. At the hospital in
          Scutari, where she worked during the war, she was con-
          stantly obstructed by bureaucrats and doctors who
          were reluctant to help her. When she led a team of 38
          nurses to Scutari, several of them gave up upon arrival
          when they saw the deplorable conditions there.
              Despite such obstacles, she vastly improved the
          conditions of the hospital, as well as the survival rate of
          patients. This was possible because she managed to
          secure allies who supported her cause. It shows the
          strength of her Command.


        System
        System refers to a person’s competence in managing direct
        and indirect resources to achieve a Prizedream. If your
        Prizedream is to do well in studies, such resources might
        include books and other sources of information, teachers,
        helpful friends, and so on.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008    9:57 AM   Page 57
                                                                        FA


                                                The SUCCESS 6 Formula    57

            The one resource that everyone needs to manage is time.
        It’s not how much time you have, but how effectively you use
        it. You can spend hours reading up on a subject and still not
        understand it, during which your time would have been
        wasted. Alternatively, you can discuss the subject with a friend
        and find that, within a few minutes, you are able to under-
        stand it well. Thus, your time would have been well spent.
            You may also find that if you study a few hours at a stretch,
        your mind becomes tired. But if you take short breaks every
        now and then, your mind may
        be fresher and you can study           Managing your time is not just
        better. You may even find that         about managing the hours and
        walking away from your task —          minutes. It is also about man-
                                               aging your mental alertness,
        whether you are reading a              energy level and other factors
        book, writing an assignment or         that determine what you
        solving a problem — will cause         achieve in that time.
        inspiration to arise.
            You also need to think about the indirect resources that
        might be available to you. For instance, is it true that every-
        one has the same 24 hours in a day? Not really. If you have
        family members or friends helping you study — by picking
        up books from the library, making photocopies and per-
        forming other mundane tasks — you are, in fact, using their
        time.
            Others can even “study” on your behalf. In my study
        group at university, each of us would study our strong sub-
        jects in great depth, and then brief the rest when we met.
        This way, we saved time. We could do this because all four of
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 58
        FA


        58   SUCCESS SECRETS

        us were serious and committed. We knew we could depend
        on each other.
           Books are also important resources. The books that your
        teachers recommend may well be “the best”. But if you find
        them difficult to understand or uninspiring, why not read
        others? If reading a basic book helps you understand a sub-
        ject, that is better than reading “the best” book and not
        understanding it.
           Finally, the Internet can be a vast source of information
        for today’s students, provided you know how to use it well.
        Recently, one of my friends needed to check some historical
        data about Singapore. After searching both the Internet and
        printed materials for two days, my friend gave up as she
        could not find the information she wanted. When another
        friend learnt about this, he went to the Internet and found
        the information within two minutes.
           Of course, the Internet is not always a reliable source of
        information, so you will need wisdom to discern which
        information can be trusted and which cannot.
           We will look more at wisdom in a later chapter. For now,
        you need to realise that, as a student, you actually have quite
        a vast pool of resources at your disposal. Learn to manage
        these resources well.

          As leader of London’s bid team for the 2012 Olympics,
          Sebastian Coe persuaded influential ambassadors to
                                                        (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd     3/10/2008     9:57 AM     Page 59
                                                                              FA


                                                      The SUCCESS 6 Formula    59


                                  (Continue d )

          join the team, including other Olympians, football star
          David Beckham and former South African President
          Nelson Mandela.
              Coe also created a new resource comprising more
          than 30 youths aged 12 to 18, and focused his presenta-
          tion around the young. He spoke about getting young
          people interested in sports instead of video games and
          junk foods. This turned out to be London’s secret
          weapon at its presentation.


        Invincibility
          “If I have to, I can do anything. I am strong, I am invincible, I am
          Woman.”

                                                           — Helen Reddy, singer


          “Inner strength can overcome anything that occurs outside.”

                                                                      — I Ching


          “People do not lack strength; they lack will.”

                                                           — Victor Hugo, writer


        When I did my diploma and masters degree programmes,
        my attitude was totally different from my younger days in
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 60
        FA


        60    SUCCESS SECRETS

        school. When I was younger, I viewed myself as a lousy stu-
        dent. This time round, I saw myself as having the potential
        to become a top student. I also believe that the PRAISE
        model gave me the tools to excel.
           Invincibility is partly about having confidence and the
        winning attitude. This is very important. While confidence
        would not guarantee success, lack of confidence certainly
        guarantees failure. Invincibility is also about cultivating
        leadership qualities. In Sun Zi’s The Art of War, these quali-
        ties are called the virtues of a general.
           What has this to do with studies and examinations? At
        first, it may not seem much. But these qualities are important
        for everyone in every situation, including students, as they
        build your strength of character. They give you an inner
        strength so that external challenges and difficulties won’t get
        you down. They help you rebound from setbacks and even
        failures. As a result, you will not be easily defeated. Eventually,
        you will triumph.
           According to Sun Zi, the five virtues of a general are:

        •    Wisdom
        •    Sincerity
        •    Courage
        •    Strictness
        •    Benevolence

        These five virtues bring us a life of fulfilment. Cultivating
        invincibility thus helps us discover a lifetime FULFILMENT
        formula.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 61
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   61

           Note that “general” does not have to mean a military com-
        mander. Everyone is a general. As a student, you are a general
        in charge of yourself, your studies and your assignments. If
        you work on a group project, you might also be the general
        in charge of the group. You could be appointed team leader
        by the teacher-in-charge, or you could naturally assume a
        leadership role.
           In school, you could also be the captain of a sports team,
        commander of a uniformed group, or leader of a music
        group. All of us are generals in one way or another. Thus, all
        of us would do well to cultivate the five virtues.


        Wisdom
        In this Information Age, knowledge is easy to come by. If you
        need to know about something, just do an Internet search.
        You will likely find lots of information about it, even if it is
        an obscure subject. You might also find contradictory and
        false information. Thus, you need wisdom to know which
        information to accept, and which to reject.
           Wisdom is not just about knowledge and understand-
        ing. These qualities will obviously help you in your stud-
        ies and examinations. But more than that, you need to
        know what is true and what is right in order to make good
        judgements.
           Let’s say you planned to spend the night studying, but
        your friends invite you out. Should you go? Or say you feel
        tired and sleepy. Should you take a break, or force yourself to
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 62
        FA


        62   SUCCESS SECRETS

        study? There is no fixed rule for such situations. Sometimes,
        you really do need a break, but you also need to discipline
        yourself. With wisdom, you will know when to push your-
        self, and when to relax.
           Wisdom does not always come from school education. It
        comes more from having experienced life and from listening
        to the advice of people, usually the elderly, who have the
        experience.


                        My Mother ’s Wisdom
          One of the wisest persons in my life was my mother.
          She was uneducated and illiterate, yet most of the time,
          she knew what was the right thing to do. Her wisdom
          kept the family together and our stomachs full, in spite
          of our financial hardships.

           As a young student, you may not have a lot of life experi-
        ences. But you learn along the way. You may find, for exam-
        ple, that every time you give yourself a break, you end up
        taking a much longer break than you intended. Or that every
        time you force yourself to study no matter how tired you are,
        you end up not being able to concentrate.
           Such experiences should help you strike a good bal-
        ance between forcing yourself and taking things easy. You
        learn from your experiences and mistakes, and gain in
        wisdom.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 63
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   63


          Investment guru Warren Buffett is highly intelligent,
          well-educated and enormously wealthy, and also dis-
          plays a great deal of wisdom.
              Buffett started young in acquiring wisdom. He
          made his first stock purchase when he was 11 years old,
          buying City Securities’ preferred shares for $38 each,
          and selling them when the price hit $40. The price later
          skyrocketed to $200. This taught him the wisdom of
          investing in the long-term.
              Fast forward to 2006 — at age 75, Buffett has become
          the second richest man in the world, with a personal
          wealth estimated by Forbes Magazine at US$42 billion.
              In June 2006, Buffett made the single largest dona-
          tion in the history of philanthropy when he pledged to
          give away about US$37.4 billion. But instead of starting
          his own charity foundation, Buffett decided to donate
          his money to a foundation that would be well-managed.
          The bulk of his wealth, about US$31 billion, would go to
          the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, founded and
          managed by the richest man in the world, Bill Gates.
              Bill Gates, at 50, is 25 years younger than Buffett. He
          has announced his decision to give up the day-to-day
          operations of Microsoft Corporation and focus on phil-
          anthropic work instead. Buffett thus recognised that his
                                                        (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 64
        FA


        64   SUCCESS SECRETS



                               (Continue d )

          money would go a longer way in the hands of Bill and
          Melinda Gates. While his gesture is widely regarded as a
          sign of great benevolence, the way he went about it
          demonstrates his great wisdom.


        Sincerity
        For students, sincerity obviously means not cheating in
        assignments or examinations. It goes beyond that, however,
        and covers your daily interactions with teachers and fellow stu-
        dents as well. Most of all, you need to be sincere with yourself.
           During my second year at pre-university, I learnt an
        important lesson about sincerity and truthfulness. I had
        stayed overnight at the college illegally to have a quiet place
        to study. There were about 20 students who stayed back, but
        not all were studying. Some spent almost the entire time
        playing games. Although I was good at the games, I pre-
        tended that I did not know how to play them since I really
        wanted to study.
           One night, a friend confronted me and asked if I really did
        not know how to play the various games. I hesitated. Because
        of that, he already knew the truth. So I told him. His eyes lit
        up when I said I was good at a Chinese game of strategy
        called zong si ling, or “general”, as that was considered one of
        the most difficult games of all.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 65
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   65

           I thought he would be angry with me for previously hid-
        ing the truth, but instead, he admired my determination and
        felt inspired. He decided to follow my example and stop
        playing games.


          Abraham Lincoln, who is widely regarded as the great-
          est American president of all time, stood out for his per-
          sonality and strength of character more than anything
          else. Not that his accomplishments were minor — on
          the contrary, they were very major. Lincoln preserved
          the unity of the United States of America by leading the
          government to victory in an American Civil War
          (1860–1864). He also ended slavery in the US, granting
          freedom to some four million African-Americans.
              However, Lincoln was so loved for his integrity and
          sincerity that his most popular nickname is Honest
          Abe. In 1831, while working as a storekeeper, he once
          walked more than six miles to return six and a half
          cents that he had inadvertently overcharged a customer.
          Another time, he walked several miles to return four
          ounces of tea because he discovered he had given a cus-
          tomer the wrong amount.
              Lincoln once told a friend that his religious code
          was the same as that of an old man he knew: “When I
          do good, I feel good, and when I do bad, I feel bad, and
          that’s my religion.”
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 66
        FA


        66   SUCCESS SECRETS


        Courage
        Are you afraid of your teachers and lecturers? Are you even
        afraid of some of your classmates? Do you have the courage
        to answer questions without being asked? Or are you afraid
        of appearing foolish if you give the wrong answer?
           The greatest courage involves facing yourself, being
        responsible for yourself and ultimately, being yourself. This
        is moral courage.
           At pre-university, I saw how a lack of moral courage
        landed one of my college mates, Heng, in trouble. Heng was
        active in sports. He exuded confidence and I always had the
        impression that he was an excellent student. However, he
        failed Physics and Chemistry and had to repeat his first year.
           Heng told me he could not face his parents. He had been
        a good student throughout secondary school. However,
        because he came from a Chinese school, he struggled with
        his lessons at pre-university. He did not have the courage to
        tell his parents, or anyone else, about this. Instead, he kept up
        the impression that he was coping well.
           When Heng’s parents found out that he had failed, they
        proved to be understanding. Heng felt a great burden lifted
        off his chest. He was thus able to focus on his studies and
        pass in the end.
           Heng’s story holds an important lesson. Often, we are
        afraid to reveal the truth because we worry that others might
        react negatively. But when they see that we are genuinely fac-
        ing difficulties and that we sincerely want to do well, they
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 67
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   67

        will usually be understanding. Even if they were to react neg-
        atively, any unpleasantness would most likely be short-lived.
        It is better to just bear with it than to carry the burden of
        having to hide the truth.


          Nelson Mandela spent 27 years in prison for his armed
          struggle against apartheid in South Africa. Once con-
          sidered a terrorist, Mandela was actually a firm believer
          in non-violence and had taken up the armed struggle as
          a last resort.
              Upon his release from prison in 1990, he pursued a
          policy of reconciliation and this set the stage for a
          smooth transition to democracy. In 1994, he became
          the first President of South Africa to be elected in fully
          representative democratic elections.
              Mandela retired from the Presidency in 1999. As an
          elder statesman, Mandela continues to voice his opin-
          ions on a number of topical issues. In 2003, Mandela
          insinuated that US President George W. Bush might
          have been racist in not following the United Nations
          on the issue of the War in Iraq, because UN Secretary-
          General Kofi Annan was a black man. Mandela’s com-
          ments stirred controversy and led to criticisms from
          even his supporters. Yet, he was not afraid to speak
          his mind.
                                                        (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd     3/10/2008      9:57 AM     Page 68
        FA


        68   SUCCESS SECRETS



                                  (Continue d )

          John Robbins, author of Diet for a New America, is
          another person not afraid to speak up. Robbins was the
          heir to Baskin-Robbins, the world’s largest ice-cream
          empire founded by his father and uncle in 1945. His
          home even had a swimming pool in the shape of an
          ice-cream cone!
               However, Robbins gave this all up to write books
          about the cruel treatment of farm animals and the
          harmful effects of eating meat and dairy products —
          including ice-cream! In doing so, he not only went
          against his family, but also against the powerful, multi-
          billion-dollar meat and dairy industries. He did it
          because he believed it was the right thing to do. He did
          it because he had moral courage.


        Strictness
          “In reading the lives of great men, I found that the first victory they won
          was over themselves — self-discipline with all of them came first.”

                                       — Harry S. Truman, former US President


        Personal victory is the most important victory that must
        be won. It comes first and foremost. Before you can gain
        victory over someone else or over a situation (such as your
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 69
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   69

        examination), you need to gain victory over yourself. This
        comes with self-discipline, or strictness.
           Strictness strengthens character and helps us succeed.
        When you look at the lives of successful people, you will find
        that they all impose strict codes on themselves. Such codes
        might concern the allocation of time, such as setting aside
        time to study, or they might involve daily routines such as
        daily exercises or meditation.
           If, as a student, you are able to adhere to a strict routine,
        you will set aside enough time to study and find that you still
        have time for recreational activities to provide balance to
        your life. In my third year of university, I stayed at the stu-
        dent hostel and part of the routine there was to set aside 5
        p.m. to 7 p.m. for recreation and dinner. I found this routine
        to be very useful as it helped me plan the rest of my day.
        More importantly, the hostel routine helped me stick to my
        personal routine.


          Benjamin Franklin, a founding father of the United
          States of America as well as a great scientist, inventor,
          entrepreneur and writer, was a master of self-discipline.
          At age 20, he drew up a list of 13 virtues in order to “live
          without committing any fault at any time”. But more
          important than drawing up the list, he also drew up a
          plan to achieve it. He marked the start of each day with
                                                        (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 70
        FA


        70   SUCCESS SECRETS



                               (Continue d )

          the question: “What good shall I do today?” And at the
          end of the day, he asked himself: “What good have I
          done today?”
              Franklin kept to this plan for most of his life. He
          commented: “It is the more remarkable, as being
          formed when I was so young, and yet being pretty faith-
          fully adhered to quite thro’ old age.”


        Benevolence
        As human beings, we all need each other. When we are
        benevolent towards others, we may not immediately benefit.
        But benevolence is not about expecting benefits — we
        extend it from the goodness of our hearts. Directly or indi-
        rectly, that kindness will come back to us. This virtue seems
        the least related to studies and examinations. Still, it can play
        an important part.
           When I was doing my master’s degree course, I had a
        graphic artist in my office who was a “problem worker”. He
        frequently turned up late for work and often took leave to
        attend to his personal matters, until he had no leave entitle-
        ment left.
           I allowed him unrecorded time off to settle his personal
        affairs, on the condition that if work demands required him
        to stay back late, he would do so. I was taking a big risk in
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 71
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   71

        helping him. If my boss found out that I had given him
        unrecorded time off, I would be punished.
           Besides helping him, I commended him whenever he pro-
        duced good work. Soon, the graphic artist turned into a
        model worker. He consistently reported early for work and
        the quality of his work was superb. He also became very loyal
        and helpful towards me. Thus, I was freed from the stress of
        having to deal with a problem worker at the office. I could
        now focus my attention on my own work.
           My most significant experience of benevolence was when
        I was at the receiving end of it, from my pre-university col-
        lege mate, Diana. Even though we were not close friends in
        the beginning, Diana sensed that I was troubled and asked
        me if I needed to talk. She gave me a much needed listening
        ear. More than that, she coached me in Mathematics every-
        day during the school vacation. Except on the day I passed,
        she would never allow me to buy her a meal to show my
        appreciation, because she knew I came from a poor family.
        This was true benevolence on her part. I had done nothing
        to deserve the tremendous help that she gave me.


                        The Good Samaritan
          Probably the most famous story about benevolence is
          that of the Good Samaritan, as told by Jesus in the
          Bible. According to the story, a Jew was travelling along
                                                        (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd     3/10/2008       9:57 AM    Page 72
        FA


        72   SUCCESS SECRETS



                                   (Continue d )
          a highway one day when he was robbed, beaten and left
          to die. A Jewish priest and a Levite (assistant priest) passed
          by, but they crossed to the other side to avoid the man.
          Then came a Samaritan (person from Samaria). The
          Samaritans were traditional enemies of the Jews. In spite
          of this, the Samaritan stopped to help the Jew. He dressed
          his wounds, took him to an inn, left some money for the
          innkeeper to take care of the man, and continued his jour-
          ney. He further told the innkeeper that he would drop by
          on his way back and make up for any shortfall if needed.
              This story has since become so famous that, more
          than two thousand years after the story was first told,
          people who perform extraordinary charitable deeds are
          called “Samaritans”.
              Was the Samaritan extraordinary? Not really. In fact,
          he was so ordinary that nobody knows his name. The
          only thing that made him special was that he cared for
          someone else when that person was in need. This is true
          benevolence.


        Strategy
          “Strategy without tactics is the slowest route to victory. Tactics without
          strategy is the noise before defeat.”

                                                      — Sun Zi, The Art of War
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 73
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   73

        Strategy involves doing things in a deliberate way that is cal-
        culated to produce certain results. With the correct strategy,
        you can win even if you are in a weaker position.
           As an example, a king once challenged his rival to a horse
        racing contest, knowing full well that his horses were supe-
        rior. The rival thought about it and proposed three races.
        The one who won at least two would win the contest. The
        king readily agreed. In the first race, the king fielded his best
        horse. His rival fielded his worst horse. So the rival lost. In
        the second race, the king could only field his second best
        horse. The rival fielded his best, and won. By now, you can
        guess who won the third race, and the contest!
           The greatest difference between my old and new
        approaches to studies was that, when I did my postgradu-
        ate studies, I had a strategy. Previously, some of the things
        I did in school or even at university, such as trying to spot
        questions, I thought were part of my “strategy”. But they
        were not — I was merely doing them out of desperation.
           Without a strategy, some of the things I did haphazardly
        were:

        • taking notes in a disorganised manner — my notes were
          useless when I needed to revise for my examinations;
        • not revising until the last minute, usually only a few days
          before the examinations;
        • having a negative view of examinations;
        • answering my exam questions hurriedly, without reading
          the questions and instructions carefully;
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 74
        FA


        74    SUCCESS SECRETS

        • memorising rather than seeking to understand the sub-
          ject matter;
        • never evaluating where I had gone wrong or how I could
          have done better after the examinations.

           The PRAISE model is influenced by Sun Zi’s The Art of
        War, which is one of the greatest books on strategy ever writ-
        ten. PRAISE gives a broad sweep of the process of planning
        and implementing a strategy through a five-step process
        called FREED, which stands for:

        •    F oundation
        •    R evision
        •    E xamination
        •    E valuation
        •    D iscipline

           These five elements of strategy form a continuous process
        of learning. Each episode in life contains lessons that prepare
        us for the next. Strategy equips us with a lifelong LEARNING
        formula.


                     Jollibee vs McDonald’s
            Philippine fast food company Jollibee took on fast food
            giant McDonald’s — and won, thanks to their strategy.
                                                        (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008     9:57 AM    Page 75
                                                                           FA


                                                  The SUCCESS 6 Formula     75


                                (Continue d )
              Jollibee was established by Filipino entrepreneur
          Tony Tan, who started off in 1975 with two ice-cream
          parlours. Inspired by the global success of McDonald’s,
          Tan opened his own chain of seven hamburger restau-
          rants called Jollibee in 1978.
              In 1979, he and his brothers travelled to the US to
          observe every detail about how McDonald’s operated.
          They returned and remodelled their stores exactly like
          McDonald’s, except that Jollibee kept to its own menu,
          with foods catered to Philippine taste buds.
              In 1981, McDonald’s opened in the Philippines.
          However, Jollibee had already become firmly entrenched
          as the market leader. Not only was McDonald’s unable to
          unseat it, the fast food giant did so badly that The
          Economist reported in 2002: “The Philippines is a huge
          embarrassment to McDonald’s.” Currently, in the
          Philippines, Jollibee controls about two-thirds of the
          market, where McDonald’s is a distant second.


        Foundation
          “If I had eight hours to chop down a tree, I’d spend six sharpening
          my ax.”

                                    — Abraham Lincoln, former US President
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 76
        FA


        76   SUCCESS SECRETS

        This book is intended to lay your foundation in terms of
        a positive attitude towards studies, as a strong foundation
        improves the chances of victory or success. While many
        books have been written about study and examination tech-
        niques, these techniques are merely tools. If a person is not
        motivated, even the best tools will not produce anything.
           When a person is motivated, he or she will seek out the
        best tools and exploit them to the fullest. Even if the person
        does not have the best tools, he or she will make the best use
        of whatever is available. So even though tools can be helpful,
        what really matters is the person using them.
           If you are studying for an examination, you obviously
        need to understand the subject well. That is your founda-
        tion. Many students practise answering questions from pre-
        vious years’ examinations and this practice adds to their
        foundation.
           It also helps if you rest well the night before so that you
        enter the examination hall with a mind that is fresh and
        clear. Foundation has many aspects. The more thorough you
        are, the more aspects you will cover, and the stronger your
        foundation will be.
           In my postgraduate studies, I adopted a different attitude
        towards examinations. I viewed the examination as an
        opportunity for me to demonstrate my knowledge, not as a
        trap to expose my ignorance. This change in attitude laid my
        foundation at a very deep level. Without the right mental
        attitude, I would probably not have done as well as I did.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 77
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   77


          Thomas Edison is widely regarded as a genius, yet some
          medical experts have speculated that he had learning
          difficulties, for he was strangely weak in areas such as
          cognition, speech and grammar. He had little formal
          education and was largely taught at home by his mother.
          But he read widely and, at one stage, planned to read
          every book on his father’s bookshelf.
               Another important foundation for Edison was his
          knack for entrepreneurship. At age 12, Edison sold news-
          papers, snacks and candy on the railroad. He also
          employed other children to sell fruits and vegetables.
          At 14, he published his own newspaper. It was the first
          newspaper ever to be typeset, printed and sold on a train.
          At one time, he was earning more than $10 per day,
          which was a large sum of money back then. This business
          spirit was important because Edison was able to produce
          practical inventions and commercialise them.
               Edison also suffered from hearing loss. He turned
          this setback to his advantage and used the silence asso-
          ciated with deafness to enhance his concentration.
               Edison’s most significant foundation, however, was
          his learning of Morse code and the telegraph at age 15.
          He had saved a toddler from being knocked down
          by a runaway freight car on the railway tracks and, as
          a reward, the boy’s father taught him the use of the
                                                        (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 78
        FA


        78   SUCCESS SECRETS



                               (Continue d )
          telegraph. Born in 1847, Edison grew up during the
          Age of Telegraphy and the use of the telegraph was a
          very valuable skill then.



        Revision
        In the context of strategy, revision refers to the act of altering
        and modifying one’s strategy.
           In terms of revising for my examinations, I certainly had
        to change my strategy. In school and at university, I treated
        revision as a last minute task to refresh my memory just
        before my examinations. Later, I realised that examinations
        were not about memorising but about understanding. If
        I already had a good understanding, there would be no need
        for any revision. I could sit for an examination at any time
        and do well in it.
           To prepare for my examinations, I wrote out a revision
        plan, allocating time for practising past questions and proj-
        ect work, as well as for social and leisure activities in order to
        maintain a healthy balance. Because I had done my revisions
        regularly throughout the school year, the process was effort-
        less and painless. It was very different from the intense and
        stressful last minute revision that I did previously.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 79
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   79


                              Canon, Inc.
          Canon, the highly successful camera maker, went
          through constant management changes during its early
          years in the 1930s and 1940s. The original founder of
          the company left the business after less than a year. His
          partner was posted to Singapore during the Second
          World War and he left the running of the business to his
          friend, Takeshi Mitarai, who proved more capable than
          he and later took control over the company.
              The name of the camera was changed from Kwanon
          (the Japanese name for the Buddhist Goddess of
          Mercy) to Canon. The company name was changed
          from Seiki Kogaku Kenyisho (SKK) to Canon Camera
          Co. Inc., and the writing of the company’s name was
          changed from Japanese characters to the romanised
          alphabet. Slowly, Canon evolved towards becoming an
          international company.
              Another major revision came in August 1945, when
          Takeshi Mitarai wound up the company and started
          afresh two months later, hiring only those employees
          who were loyal during the war.
              Probably the most major revision came in 1975,
          the year Canon made a loss of about $5.7 million and

                                                        (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 80
        FA


        80   SUCCESS SECRETS



                               (Continue d )

          could not pay dividends to its shareholders. Major
          management reforms were instituted. Canon pursued
          a path of diversification and quickly returned to
          profitability.
             These and other changes helped Canon become the
          US$35 billion company that it was in 2006.


        Examination
        Examination in the context of strategy goes beyond examina-
        tions associated with studying. It refers to putting one’s plan to
        the test, in order to gauge the results. It could mean a trial run
        or mock examination, whereby the student practises past ques-
        tions. Of course, it also includes an actual examination where
        students’ marks are graded.
           For my individual presentations in the master’s degree
        programme, I did trial runs before a few classmates who
        were kind enough to spare the time. I took their feedback
        seriously and worked on improving my presentation before
        I presented it to the entire class. Without practice, my first
        individual presentation turned out to be a disaster. But
        I learnt a lot from that incident. I appreciated the impor-
        tance of doing trial runs and subsequently fared much
        better.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 81
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   81


                             Dare to Fail
          Tom Peters, co-author of In Search of Excellence, once
          asked David Glass, at that time CEO of WalMart, the
          largest retailer in the world, how he would describe
          Walmart founder Sam Walton. Glass replied: “Sam is not
          afraid to fail. Sam will try something and he will make a
          horrible botch of it; then he will walk in to work the next
          morning, laughing like a hyena, and he would say, ‘Got
          that one out of the way. What the hell do we do next?’ ”


        Evaluation
        In the past, whenever I did badly in my studies, I simply
        accepted my poor results. I felt that there was nothing
        I could do about it. PRAISE taught me to evaluate my
        performance — and to do something about it!
           In my diploma course, I obtained a B for my first paper.
        I wanted to be a top student and I knew that B’s would not
        get me to the top. So I conducted an evaluation to discover
        my mistakes and weak areas and how I could overcome them
        in the future.
           Some of the areas I considered in my evaluation were:

        • Was I adversely influenced by SADDLE factors — self-
          pity, arrogance, distractions, daydreams, laziness, exag-
          gerated fear?
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 82
        FA


        82   SUCCESS SECRETS

        • Did I have any problem with time management?
        • Was I adequate in note-making and in producing mind
          maps?
        • Did I have any poor study habits?
        • Did I have sufficient course material?
        • Was my foundation strong enough?
        • Were there gaps in my revision plan?
        • Were there weaknesses in the way I approached the exam?

        By making a thorough evaluation of my performance, I was
        able to perform much better subsequently.


                         A “Happy Problem”
          Urgent evaluation is obviously needed when a project
          goes horribly wrong. But what if things go “horribly
          right”?
              This was what happened to Sakae Sushi, a con-
          veyor-belt sushi restaurant started by Singapore entre-
          preneur Douglas Foo. When Foo opened his first Sakae
          Sushi restaurant in September 1977, he ran out of food
          within three hours.
              Such a “happy problem”, if not solved, will turn into
          an unhappy one. If Sakae Sushi had kept running out of
          food, it would not likely have become the success it is
          today — as Singapore’s biggest chain of sushi restau-
          rants, with branches in Indonesia, Thailand and China.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 83
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   83

        Discipline
        There are two types of discipline — internal and external.
        Internal discipline is self-imposed and more effective.
        External discipline is imposed by a higher authority. It may
        not be as effective because once the authority is not around,
        the discipline may evaporate.
           For any project to be successful — and even for daily rou-
        tines to proceed smoothly — the people involved need to
        observe internal as well as external “system” discipline.
           System discipline also requires that the interest of the
        group be placed above personal interest. When I had a dis-
        agreement with my team members over the source of moti-
        vation, I went along with the majority view for the group
        presentation. I presented my own view only when I wrote
        about my individual learning experience.
           The situation was different when I had a dispute with my
        team leader over my clarification of the word “exercises”. If
        I had not clarified, I would not have been able to contribute
        meaningfully to the group discussion. So I persisted. Should
        I have backed off to avoid a conflict? No. If I did that, I might
        have felt bitter and any negative feeling on my part could
        have rubbed off onto the other team members.
           There are no hard and fast rules. Sometimes it is better to
        have a short-term flare-up and then move on. At other times,
        it may be best to avoid an open confrontation. Perhaps the
        only rule I can offer is to think about what is best for the
        whole group, and act accordingly.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd    3/10/2008      9:57 AM     Page 84
        FA


        84   SUCCESS SECRETS

           The greatest challenge for me was doing the master’s
        course itself. The first year was especially difficult as I was
        concurrently doing my diploma programme and holding a
        full-time job. Many times, I wanted to give up. In the end,
        though, discipline saw me through.


                 Downing of Korean Aircraft
          In 1983, a Korean aircraft veered into Soviet airspace.
          According to later investigation, this was due to naviga-
          tion equipment failure. But the aircraft did not have
          navigation lights on, and its pilots did not respond to
          communication messages from the Soviets.
              As a result, it was shot down as Soviet military officers
          thought it was an enemy aircraft. There were no good
          guys and bad guys in this tragedy. Unfortunately, the
          Korean aircraft had failed to observe system discipline.


        Excellence
          “He can who thinks he can, he can’t who thinks he can’t.”

                                                         — Pablo Piccaso, artist


          “Think you can, think you can’t, either way you’ll be right.”

                                                    — Henry Ford, industrialist
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 85
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   85

        Success — and failure — begins in the mind. With mind
        power, you can do all sorts of fantastic things — climb
        mountains, run marathons, lose weight, recover from ill-
        ness . . . and pass your exams with flying colours.
           What are the chances of success if you set out to do some-
        thing, even if it is something you have never done before?
        The answer may surprise you. According to research by psy-
        choanalyst Karen Horney, people who embark on new tasks
        succeed 95 percent of the time!
           The trouble is, most people do not even try and they think
        they failed. But this failure is not real. How can you fail at
        something that you did not do?


                 Power of Positive Thinking
          Normal Vincent Peale (1898–1993) popularised the
          idea of positive thinking. His 1952 book, The Power of
          Positive Thinking, was on the New York Times best-
          seller list for 186 consecutive weeks. It sold over 20 mil-
          lion copies and has been translated into more than
          40 languages.
              Peale grew up with a strong inferiority complex and
          was “shy to the extreme”. He was so lacking in confi-
          dence that his college professor once told him: “ You
          have a reasonably good mind but you are not making
                                                        (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 86
        FA


        86   SUCCESS SECRETS



                               (Continue d )

          adequate use of it. How long are you going to be like
          this — a scared rabbit afraid of establishing its own
          voice? You better change the way you think about your-
          self. You better do it now before it’s too late!”
               Peale later found a book by the 19th-century psy-
          chologist William James, who wrote: “The greatest dis-
          covery of this generation is that a human being can
          alter his life by altering his attitudes of mind.”
               Peale went on to make himself confident by acting
          confident, and talking about it. Interestingly, he owes
          the success of The Power of Positive Thinking to the pos-
          itive attitude of his wife. Peale received so many rejec-
          tion slips for his book that he threw the manuscript
          into the waste basket and forbade his wife from remov-
          ing it. The next day, his wife took the entire waste
          basket to another publisher, who finally accepted it!


        Pygmalion effect
        In some instances, such as in teacher-student relationships,
        even how other people think of you can affect your per-
        formance. If they believe you will do well, chances are you
        will. And if they think you will do badly, chances are you
        also will. This is the Pygmalion Effect, named after a book,
        Pygmalion in the Classroom, by Robert Rosenthal, a profes-
        sor of social psychology, and Lenore Jacobson.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 87
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   87

           In a 1968 study, the two Harvard researchers made a
        group of students sit for an IQ test and then told teachers
        that 20 percent of them showed great potential for intellec-
        tual development. In reality, the students were chosen ran-
        domly. But because their teachers were led to believe that
        they were intellectually superior, these students significantly
        improved their scores when they sat for a second IQ test
        eight months later.
           What can you do about the Pygmalion Effect? First, try
        your best to create a positive image of yourself. If you cannot
        show that you are smart, at least show that you are sincere
        about wanting to learn.
           Second, avoid a negative image. Do not misbehave or
        sleep in class, do not hand in your assignments late and so
        on. Otherwise, you will need to work doubly hard to change
        your teachers’ view of you.


        Self-talk
        Our mind can be considered a “separate person” and we
        often talk to ourselves. Most of us do it silently, but some
        people do it aloud and are considered “mad”. Yet, it is very
        natural to talk to ourselves.
           What do you talk to yourself about? What do you keep
        telling yourself, day after day?
           Some people tell themselves that they are bad with num-
        bers, or bad at remembering facts. This is their “self-talk”.
        For most people, self-talk tends to be negative. For some, it
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd    3/10/2008      9:57 AM     Page 88
        FA


        88   SUCCESS SECRETS

        can get really bad, like “I can never succeed at anything” or “I
        always fail no matter how hard I try.”
           If you have a lot of negative self-talk, you need to change
        this. Start with small changes. Instead of saying “I can never
        succeed”, change it to “I can succeed if I set a lower target” or
        “I can find someone to help me.”
           And why not? If some people can get 100 marks for
        Mathematics, why can’t you get 70 or 80? If some people can
        learn six languages, why can’t you learn two? If some stu-
        dents can score 10 A’s, why can’t you score at least 10 B’s?
        Why must you fail?


        Cycles of excellence
          “We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act but
          a habit.”

                                                   — Aristotle, Greek philosopher


          “He that is good for making excuses is seldom good for anything else.”

                           — Benjamin Franklin, scientist, inventor, statesman


          “I am not a has been. I am a will be.”

                                                        — Lauren Bacall, actress

        Once you have achieved excellence, you want to do it over
        and over again — not because you are greedy for success,
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 89
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   89

        but because you have to. Otherwise, you will stagnate and
        deteriorate.
           Some people achieve success at an early age, but then
        something happens and they fall, never to rise again. So it is
        important that when you experience a setback, you are able
        to pick yourself up and move on to greater heights.
           A person who fails to pick himself up lacks resilience. He
        may be gifted with intelligence or born into a favourable
        family environment. But because he never created his own
        success, he will not know how to reproduce it once he fails.
           When we learn to reproduce excellence and success, over
        and over again, we become a successful person — a person
        with a clear pattern of success all the time. We therefore
        acquire a lifetime EXCELLENCE formula.
           Life is a continuous process of study and examination. Even
        after you leave school, you will always keep learning new things.
        It could be something minor. Let’s say you bought a new digi-
        tal camera or some other gadget. Can you learn to use all or
        most of its functions? This may seem trivial. But some people
        have mental blocks that prevent them from learning even
        simple tasks.
           In the course of your work, you may also have to under-
        take major learning projects, such as studying the feasibility
        of launching a new product or expanding to new markets.
        Can you pass these “examinations”? Or if you fail, can you
        rebound from the setback?
           PRAISE is specially designed to help you overcome set-
        backs and achieve excellence, over and over again. You will
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 90
        FA


        90    SUCCESS SECRETS

        enter a cycle whereby success breeds greater success. This
        cycle has five elements:

        •    Action
        •    Success
        •    Habit
        •    Character
        •    Perseverance


        Action
        Action can lead to either success or failure. If failure occurs,
        you go back to taking action again. If you keep failing, obvi-
        ously your action is not appropriate and you need to take
        some other form of action.
           If you keep failing your examinations, what should you
        do? Keep studying (or not studying) in the same way? This is
        not going to work.
           You need to discover what forms of action give you the
        best results. Be flexible in your approach. In fact, start by
        thinking differently. You need to change your attitudes
        before you even change your actions.
           Action also means going though the SUCCESS 6 Formula:

        • S et the P rizedream
        • U se internal R ules
        • C onduct A nalysis
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 91
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   91

        •   C ultivate I nvincibility
        •   E xecute the S trategy
        •   S ustain E xcellence
        •   S uccess shall be yours, without limits.

           If your action does not lead to success, go back to the first
        steps of the PRAISE model to examine where you have gone
        wrong and where improvements can be made. If you apply
        the SUCCESS 6 Formula diligently, you should meet with
        success soon enough.


        Success
        Once you have achieved success, you will have attained a new
        level of life skills. You will have broken free from your past
        patterns of failure, mediocrity or, at best, “lucky success”.
           “Lucky success” — coming from favourable
        circumstances — is not true success. It cannot be repeated
        because nobody is always lucky. Some people may appear
        always lucky. But if you look deeper, you will find that they
        had their share of setbacks, and that they worked hard to
        take full advantage of whatever “luck” they had.
           If you depend on “luck”, you may not be able to bounce
        back once a setback occurs. But once you have learnt how to
        create your own success, all setbacks become temporary.
        They become part of the learning experience that will lead
        you to greater successes.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 92
        FA


        92   SUCCESS SECRETS



                           Small Successes
          Do One Thing Different is a book by psychotherapist
          Bill O’Hanlon, who is a great believer that small
          changes can lead to big successes. A favourite anecdote
          of his is about how one woman overcame her drug
          addiction by making just one very small change.
               In 1999, Bill appeared on the popular Oprah
          Winfrey Show. A woman who watched the show e-mailed
          Bill and asked him to recommend psychotherapists who
          used similar approaches as he. Bill gave her three names,
          but never heard from her again.
               A year later, Bill finally received another e-mail
          from the woman. She had contacted all the three psy-
          chotherapists, but could not afford their fees. So she
          decided to heal herself of the addiction by doing “one
          thing different”.
               She was taking 27 pills a day. Her addiction was so
          strong that even to reduce her intake by one pill was
          too big a step for her. She finally came up with a plan
          to scrape a bit off each pill.
               That was the one small change. As the weeks passed,
          she would scrape off more and more of it. Ten months
          later, she had scraped so much off that she was no
          longer taking the drug.
                                                       (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 93
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   93


                              (Continue d )
             This first step to success was important. It boosted
          her confidence and made her believe that she could
          eventually achieve bigger successes.


        Habit
        Once you are able to achieve success, no matter how small,
        the next step is to make a habit of it. Keep striving for suc-
        cess so that you are constantly, habitually successful.
           The fact that you succeed is more important than the size
        of your success. So if you are not yet very capable, set mod-
        est targets. It is better to achieve minor successes most of the
        time, than to achieve big successes occasionally but fail the
        rest of the time.
           At pre-university, I would sleep at 7 p.m. and wake up at
        2 a.m. to study. This was very difficult at first. But as I made
        it a habit, it became easier. Waking up at 2 a.m. became
        more of a daily routine, rather than something that required
        special effort.

                         Franklin’s Habits
          When Benjamin Franklin drew up his list of virtues, he
          originally had only 12, but he added “humility” as the
                                                        (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 94
        FA


        94   SUCCESS SECRETS



                               (Continue d )
          13th virtue after a friend pointed out that he was gen-
          erally thought to be proud.
              Franklin was determined to cure himself of this vice
          or folly, so he adopted a new strategy in his manner of
          speaking: “I even forbid myself . . . the use of every word
          or expression in the language that imported a fix’d opin-
          ion, such as certainly, undoubtedly, etc., and I adopted,
          instead of them, I conceive, I apprehend, or I imagine a
          thing to be so or so; or it so appears to me at present.”
              Naturally, Franklin found it difficult when he first
          tried to change. But he soon made a habit of it: “. . . it
          became at length so easy, and so habitual to me, that
          perhaps for these fifty years past no one has ever heard
          a dogmatical expression escape me.”
              Franklin believed this habit helped him to sway
          public opinion: “. . . for I was but a bad speaker, never
          eloquent, subject to much hesitation in my choice of
          words, hardly correct in language, and yet I generally
          carried my points.”


        Character
        At university, my habit of helping some of the weaker stu-
        dents, and of improving my grades year after year, soon
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 95
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   95

        became part of my character. I acquired a reputation of
        being a “good student”.
           This was a vast improvement from before. In primary
        school, my character was that of a playful, naughty failure.
        Up until pre-university, the best I could manage was to
        become a “barely made it” student.
           The reputation I acquired at university, however, came to
        nought when I joined the master’s degree programme. This
        was a programme for mid-career adults and most of my
        classmates held high positions in their organisations. In
        contrast, I was a young naval officer with zero corporate
        experience.
           I was considered a nobody. My classmates did not want
        me for group projects as they worried I would drag down
        the overall score. Thus, I had to re-establish my character —
        by achieving success and making a habit of it.
           I consciously made it a habit to volunteer to take notes
        during our group discussions and produce the final
        report. I put my heart and soul into the task so that I con-
        sistently produced good reports. As the course progressed,
        I also stopped asking basic questions in class and began
        contributing more meaningfully towards class discussions.
           Slowly, as I established my character as a helpful and
        capable student, my classmates began to see me for my value.
        I began to be invited by various groups to join them in their
        projects.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 96
        FA


        96   SUCCESS SECRETS



          British billionaire entrepreneur Richard Branson has
          such a strong success character that few people know,
          and care, about his failures.
              Some years back, Branson opened his Virgin mega-
          store and launched his Virgin soft drinks in Singapore.
          Both projects failed.
              Branson probably had other failed ventures as well.
          Do they matter? I don’t think so. His successes with
          Virgin Atlantic, Virgin Blue and other businesses have
          been immense. So what if he occasionally failed?
              That is the great advantage of being successful —
          you can afford to fail. You can make mistakes, shrug
          them off and learn from them. You can even afford to
          do things that you know little about. One of Branson’s
          latest business ventures is space tourism. Of this, he said:
          “I couldn’t change a spark plug and I started Virgin
          Atlantic. And I haven’t got a clue about spaceships.”


           If you adopt the mindset of a failure, one mistake can dev-
        astate you and even drive you to depression. But if you have
        the character of a success, even a hundred mistakes will not
        matter. You can take on the toughest challenges and not
        worry too much about failing.
           A message we often hear is that in order to succeed, one
        must not be afraid of failure. This is true. But it is a chicken
        and egg situation — in order not to be afraid of failure, you
        have to succeed first.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 97
                                                                       FA


                                               The SUCCESS 6 Formula   97

           How can you break free from this situation? Begin by
        starting small. Take small risks and achieve small successes.
        Build your confidence. From there, slowly make success a
        habit. Finally, when that habit becomes a part of your char-
        acter, you will feel so confident about yourself that failures
        will not bother you anymore.


        Perseverance
        Once you have made success a habit and acquired the char-
        acter of a successful person, the next step is relatively easy —
        persevere.
           Perseverance means that you keep applying the PRAISE
        SUCCESS 6 Formula to achieve round after round of suc-
        cess. It also means that you guard against complacency so
        that you do not slacken. This is something that happens all
        too easily.
           My master’s degree course culminated in a “consolidated
        examination” that tested students’ knowledge and familiarity
        with all the subjects taught in the 11 previous modules. This
        was the ultimate test. We not only had to be familiar with all
        the subjects, but also with how they inter-related with one
        another.
           I prepared well for it right from the start. In my ongoing
        note-making and revision for each of the modules, I was
        already integrating my notes by incorporating concepts from
        one module into another. I was already laying the founda-
        tion for this final paper.
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 98
        FA


        98   SUCCESS SECRETS

           For an examination such as this, it was impossible to study
        from textbooks as they did not cover how the different sub-
        jects were inter-related. Moreover, this examination required
        us to draw from our presentations, group projects and class
        discussions.
           Most importantly, having persevered to do well in every
        module, I felt mentally prepared to tackle the consolidated
        examination. There was no single subject that I was weak in.
        I could easily draw knowledge and insights from one situa-
        tion to apply in another.
           And so I passed, with flying colours. My PRAISE life skills
        model passed as well, also with flying colours.
           The PRAISE model played a crucial role in helping me
        achieve my Prizedream. I did not realise it then, but I was to
        achieve many more Prizedreams when I ventured into the
        corporate world and the world of entrepreneurship.
           There are still other Prizedreams yet to be achieved.
        My days of “Prizedreaming” have only just begun . . .
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008     9:57 AM     Page 99
                                                                           FA


                                                   The SUCCESS 6 Formula   99




                  Be Careful
                  Be careful of your thoughts,
                     for your thoughts become your words;

                  Be careful of your words,
                     for your words become your deeds;

                  Be careful of your deeds,
                     for your deeds become your habits;

                  Be careful of your habits,
                     for your habits become your character;

                  Be careful of your character,
                     for your character becomes your destiny.

                                                    — Anonymous
b566v2_Chapter-04.qxd   3/10/2008   9:57 AM   Page 100
        FA
b566v2_Chapter-05.qxd   3/4/2008   3:34 PM   Page 101
                                                        FA




                                             PART II
                                         LIFE SKILLS
b566v2_Chapter-05.qxd   3/4/2008   3:35 PM   Page 102
        FA
b566v2_Chapter-05.qxd   3/4/2008   3:35 PM   Page 103
                                                                     FA




                                     5
                 Success Unlimited


        Studies and examinations are important, but they are not as
        crucial as the life skills that you acquire in the process of get-
        ting good grades. As will be seen in the next chapter, people
        with a good set of life skills can succeed — and succeed in
        fantastic ways — even though they might not have much
        formed education.
           After I topped my master’s degree course, I went on to
        apply the PRAISE life skills model in my corporate career,
        entrepreneurship and other life’s challenges. I have now been
        using PRAISE for over 20 years and it has never failed me.
           PRAISE can be applied to a broad range of situations
        because all challenges are basically the same — they all
        require you to overcome obstacles, rebound from setbacks
        and never give up.
           With a good set of life skills, therefore, you will be able
        to achieve success in many different fields and in many


                                       103
b566v2_Chapter-05.qxd   3/4/2008   3:35 PM   Page 104
        FA


        104   SUCCESS SECRETS

        different aspects of your life, making you a truly successful
        person.
           If you are a top student but you don’t know how to
        socialise, your classmates will call you a nerd. If you succeed
        in making a lot of money but fail to manage your finances,
        you are a failure. If you build a business empire but you have
        no family or friends, you have failed in life. If you are well-
        respected in your organisation but your own children do not
        respect you, something is obviously amiss.
           Life has many facets and we may not succeed in every
        single aspect of it. We must, nevertheless, strive for success in
        as many areas as possible. Even in those areas where we don’t
        quite succeed, at least we can work towards reducing the
        extent of our failures.
           People who succeed strongly in one area tend to do so at
        the expense of other aspects of their lives. They may leave
        great imprints on humanity, but their personal lives suffer.


          As Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of KPMG,
          one of the largest accounting firms in the US, Eugene
          O’Kelly had power and prestige. He felt that he “sat
          atop the world”. That perspective changed when, in
          May 2005 at age 53, O’Kelly was diagnosed with brain
          cancer. He was told that he might not live beyond
          September.
                                                    (Continued )
b566v2_Chapter-05.qxd   3/4/2008   3:35 PM   Page 105
                                                                       FA


                                                   Success Unlimited   105


                              (Continue d )

              He wrote: “But the job of CEO, while of course
          incredibly privileged, was relentless. My diary was per-
          petually extended out over the next 18 months. I worked
          weekends and late into many nights. I missed virtually
          every school function for my younger daughter. Over
          the course of my last decade with the firm, I did manage
          to squeeze in work-day lunches with my wife. Twice . . .”
              Re-evaluating his success, O’Kelly lived his final
          days spending more time with his family and writing
          about his final days. On 10 September 2005, O’Kelly
          died. His wife Corinne wrote the final chapter of his
          book, Chasing Daylight: How My Forthcoming Death
          Transformed My Life.

          It is not uncommon that the prospect of death makes
        people re-evaluate what they want out of life. In the process,
        they often strike a new balance and redefine the meaning of
        “success”.
          We all need to find our own balance. I therefore encour-
        age you to define your own success and choose the type of
        success that you want. Choose to be successful according to
        your own definition — and act on it.
          Success, as defined by others, will understandably influ-
        ence us, due to social norms, peer pressure and other
b566v2_Chapter-05.qxd   3/4/2008   3:35 PM   Page 106
        FA


        106   SUCCESS SECRETS

        reasons. So, yes, it is not easy to find your own definition of
        success. Nevertheless, you must make your choice and take
        ownership of it, so that you become master of your own
        destiny.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 107
                                                                  FA




                                     6
                   Famous Failures


        Stories abound about how geniuses like Albert Einstein and
        highly successful entrepreneurs like Bill Gates were failures
        and dropouts.
           Some of these stories are not entirely accurate. True, Bill
        Gates did not complete his university education. But he left
        during his third year to pursue a career in computer software
        development and to start a business with his friend — a
        business that eventually became Microsoft Corporation. His
        decision to leave was not because he could not cope with his
        studies.
           Bill Gates had left Harvard University, which is widely
        considered to be the top university in the world! He was
        reported to have gained admission to Harvard with a SAT
        (Scholastic Assessment Test) score of 1590 — a score that
        would have placed him among the top 0.1 percent of candi-
        dates. He was not the regular “college dropout”.


                                      107
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 108
        FA


        108   SUCCESS SECRETS

           In the same “class” as Bill Gates is Michael Dell, founder of
        Dell Computers. He did not do well in school and one of his
        teachers had commented that he “would probably never go
        anywhere in life”.
           While at the University of Texas at Austin studying to
        become a doctor, Dell started a computer company called PC’s
        Limited. The company did so well that, at the age of 19, Dell
        stopped his studies to run the business full-time.
           Today, PC’s Limited has become Dell Computer
        Corporation, the largest personal computer manufacturer in
        the world. And Michael Dell was ranked by Forbes Magazine
        in 2006 as the 12th richest man in the world.
           The case of Albert Einstein (1879–1955) is a bit more
        complicated. His “failure” in mathematics was, in fact, due
        to a confusion caused by a change in the way grades were
        assigned.
           Einstein was not weak in mathematics. He actually
        showed an aptitude for mathematics at an early age. Einstein
        attended the Luitpold Gymnasium, a secondary school in
        Munich, Germany, and he began to learn mathematics when
        he was about 12 years old. He taught himself Euclidean
        plane geometry from a school booklet and also began to
        study calculus.
           He was, however, considered a “slow learner”. This could
        have been due to dyslexia, a learning disorder whereby suf-
        ferers have difficulty recognising alphabets and words. It
        could also have been due simply to shyness. But later in life,
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 109
                                                                      FA


                                                    Famous Failures   109

        Einstein credited his development of the theory of relativity
        to this slowness, saying that by pondering space and time
        later than most children, he was able to apply a more devel-
        oped intellect.
           In 1894, following the failure of his father’s electrochemi-
        cal business, the Einsteins moved from Munich to Pavia, a
        city in Italy. Einstein remained behind in Munich to finish
        school, but he completed only one term before leaving to
        join his family in Pavia. Einstein quit school — by obtaining
        a medical note from a friendly doctor — a year and a half
        before the final examinations. Thus, he did not have a sec-
        ondary-school certificate.
           Einstein took the entrance examination of the Eidgenö-
        ssische Technische Hochschule (Swiss Federal Institute of
        Technology) and excelled in science and mathematics.
        However, he failed the liberal arts portion of the exam. His
        family sent him to Aarau, Switzerland, to finish secondary
        school. There, he studied electromagnetic theory and
        received his diploma in September 1896.
           So, whether or not Einstein was in fact a “slow learner”, he
        still went on to become arguably the greatest scientist of the
        20th century; the icon of genius and intelligence!
           Albert Einstein, Bill Gates and Michael Dell are the more
        famous examples of “successful dropouts”, even though they
        were not dropouts in the true sense of the word. There are
        many more, including those who did badly in school as well
        as those who dropped out for other reasons. How many?
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 110
        FA


        110   SUCCESS SECRETS

        One website that lists “Noted High School and Elementary
        School Dropouts” counted 699 as of February 2006.
          Many of the people on the list are movie stars and pop or
        rock singers. They include 63 Oscar winners, 103 Oscar
        nominees and uncounted numbers of other award winners.
        Sports personalities also featured prominently on the list,
        including 7 Olympic gold medalists.
          Significantly, the list of “famous dropouts” also includes:

        • 18 billionaires and uncounted numbers of millionaires
        • 8 US Presidents and several other world leaders
        • 10 Nobel Prize winners (6 Literature, 2 Peace, 1 Physics,
          1 Chemistry)
        • 55 bestselling authors
        • 27 knighthoods and 3 damehoods.

           Yet this impressive list includes mainly people who are
        well-known within the English-speaking world. In Europe,
        Asia and elsewhere, I am sure there are lots more successful
        dropouts.
           For instance, Li Ka Shing, the richest man in Asia, is one
        famous billionaire not (yet) on this list. In China, so I was
        told but could not verify, the majority of the country’s rich-
        est and most successful entrepreneurs are people with mini-
        mal education.
           It has to be noted that “dropouts” in this case refer to peo-
        ple who left the education system for a variety of reasons,
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd     3/4/2008      3:36 PM     Page 111
                                                                                  FA


                                                               Famous Failures    111

        not necessarily due to a lack of academic ability. Some were
        too poor to continue their studies, some stopped schooling
        because of war, family dislocation, poor health, and other
        reasons.
           Thus, the list also includes a number of people who sub-
        sequently obtained at least the equivalent of a high school
        diploma, as well as degrees and doctorates. But they form a
        minority — 138 out of 699 people, or about 20 percent. The
        rest never made it past high school. But they made it in life!
           The compilers of the list write:

          “While it is a fact and very important to stress that more opportunities
          exist for individuals who have at least a high school diploma, the names
          on these lists also add considerable weight to the discussion of what con-
          stitutes markers of human intelligence and a person’s potential worth
          to society and, historically, civilization as a whole.
             These names represent examples of human perseverance, creativity,
          and, in a great many instances, genius.”


          The following pages feature just a few examples . . .


        “Colonel” Harland Sanders
        (1890–1980)
        Colonel Sanders is the founder of Kentucky Fried Chicken
        (KFC), one of the biggest fast food chains in the world
        today. He dropped out of elementary school in his fifth year,
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 112
        FA


        112   SUCCESS SECRETS

        but later earned a law degree through a correspondence
        course.
           Sanders’ father died when he was six years old, and he had
        to cook for the family as his mother worked. He worked on
        many jobs during his teenage years, including firefighter,
        steamboat driver, insurance salesman and as a private in the
        Cuban army.
           At the age of 40, he ran a service station in Corbin,
        Kentucky, and cooked chicken for people who passed by. His
        popularity grew and he moved to a motel and restaurant and
        began working as the chef.
           But not all was well. In 1952, Sanders was in his 60s and
        reportedly penniless. He travelled across the US to licence his
        special method of frying chicken in a pressure cooker, sleep-
        ing in his car to save money. His proposal was that restaurant
        owners would pay him a nickel (five cents) for every piece of
        chicken sold.
           Over a two-year period, he was rejected 1,008 times before
        the 1,009th person said “Yes”. And so KFC was born.


        José Saramago (1922–)
        Saramago is a Portuguese writer who won the Nobel Prize
        for Literature in 1998. He dropped out of grammar school
        due to his family’s financial situation and later attended a
        technical school where he received training to become a car
        mechanic.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd     3/4/2008      3:36 PM     Page 113
                                                                                   FA


                                                              Famous Failures      113

          In his autobiography, Saramago wrote:

          “I was born into a family of landless peasants . . . I was a good pupil at
          primary school: in the second class I was writing with no spelling mis-
          takes and the third and fourth classes were done in a single year. Then
          I was moved up to the grammar school where I stayed two years, with
          excellent marks in the first year, not so good in the second, but was well-
          liked by classmates and teachers.
             Meanwhile my parents reached the conclusion that, in the absence
          of resources, they could not go on keeping me in the grammar school.
          The only alternative for me was to go to a technical school. And so it
          was: for five years, I learned to be a mechanic. But surprisingly, the
          syllabus at that time, though obviously technically-oriented, included,
          besides French, a literature subject.
             After finishing the course, I worked for two years as a mechanic at a
          car repair shop. By that time I had already started to frequent, in its
          evening opening hours, a public library in Lisbon. And it was there,
          with no help or guidance except curiosity and the will to learn, that my
          taste for reading developed and was refined.”



        Arnold Schwarzenegger (1947–)
        Schwarzenegger left school at 14 to focus on bodybuilding
        and to work as an apprentice carpenter. He became one of
        the world’s greatest bodybuilders, a successful actor and
        film producer and, since November 2003, the Governor of
        California, USA.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 114
        FA


        114   SUCCESS SECRETS

           Born in Austria, Schwarzenegger played many sports as a
        child and discovered his passion for bodybuilding when,
        during his teens, his soccer coach took the team for weight
        training.
           At 18, Schwarzenegger served in the Austrian army. One
        day, he sneaked off from the army base to compete in his
        first bodybuilding competition. He won the junior title of
        Mr Australasia. He was punished for sneaking off, but
        reportedly earned the respect of his army superiors.
           In September 1968, Schwarzenegger moved to the United
        States. He had little money and limited knowledge of
        English. But he had a dream — to become the greatest
        bodybuilder in the world by winning the prestigious
        Mr Olympia contest.
           He failed in his first attempt in 1969, but won for the next
        six consecutive years, from 1970 to 1975. In 1980, as a late
        entry with only eight weeks to prepare for the competition,
        Schwarzenegger again won the Mr Olympia title.
           Meanwhile, Schwarzenegger embarked on a successful
        Hollywood career and is best known for the movies,
        Terminator and Terminator II: Judgement Day.
           Lesser known about Schwarzenegger is that he became a
        millionaire at age 22, before his bodybuilding and Hollywood
        successes. He made his money through a brick-laying busi-
        ness which he co-founded with another bodybuilder in 1968.
        The duo later started a mail order business for bodybuilding
        equipment and instructional tapes and Schwarzenegger also
        invested in real estate.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 115
                                                                      FA


                                                    Famous Failures   115

           In addition, Schwarzenegger was a founding “celebrity
        investor” in the Planet Hollywood chain of theme restaurants,
        launched in 1991. He severed his ties with the business in 2000.
           In 2003, Schwarzenegger was elected Governor of
        California. Along his career path, as a 32-year-old adult in
        1979, he graduated from the University of Wisconsin-
        Superior with degrees in International Marketing of Fitness
        and Business Administration.


        Wally Amos (1936–)
        Wally Amos is the founder of the Famous Amos international
        chain of cookie stores and, more recently, Uncle Wally’s
        Muffin Company.
           Amos had little formal education, but showed interest in
        cooking from a very young age. He enrolled at the Food
        Trades Vocational High School, but dropped out to join the
        US Air Force.
           Whilst in the Air Force, Amos became inspired to study.
        He obtained a high school diploma and, after leaving the Air
        Force, went to college to study to become a secretary. He
        took on a clerical job with William Morris Agency, where he
        worked with pop stars including Diana Ross & the Supremes
        and Simon & Garfunkel.
           Amos attracted clients to the William Morris Agency by
        sending them an invitation along with some chocolate chip
        cookies that he baked, using his aunt’s recipe which he learnt
        as a child.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 116
        FA


        116   SUCCESS SECRETS

           In 1975, a friend encouraged him to set up a cookie store
        and the first Famous Amos store was opened in Los Angeles.
        Later, financial troubles forced Amos to sell his company,
        but he made a comeback with The Uncle Noname’s Cookie
        Company.
           A Famous Amos distributor, Lou Avignone, heard Amos
        on a local radio talk show and was inspired by his early busi-
        ness success and his indomitable spirit. Avignone contacted
        Amos and, in 1994, the two launched a new business called
        Uncle Noname Gourmet Muffins, producing fat-free, nutri-
        tious muffins. In 1999, Uncle Noname became Uncle Wally’s
        Muffin Company.
           Today, Amos has become a motivational speaker and is
        author of 13 books, including Watermelon Magic: Seeds of
        Wisdom, Slices of Life, and The Famous Amos Story: The Face
        That Launched a Thousand Chips.


        James H. Clark (1944–)
        Clark was suspended from high school for misbehaviour,
        but went on to earn a PhD in computer science — and
        revolutionise computer and the Internet technology.
          He is the father of computer graphics and, as co-founder
        of Netscape Communications, a pioneer of Internet web
        surfing. He also sparked the dot.com boom on the US stock
        market during the 1990s, and is widely considered a genius.
          Clark had a difficult childhood. His father was reportedly
        an alcoholic and a wife abuser, and his parents divorced
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 117
                                                                      FA


                                                    Famous Failures   117

        when he was about 14. Clark and his brother were supported
        by their mother on a meagre salary and Clark severed ties
        with his father.
           At high school, Clark once smuggled a skunk into a school
        dance. And when an English teacher scolded him for failing
        to read a poem, The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, Clark told
        her to go to hell. He was suspended for setting off a smoke
        bomb on the band bus.
           Clark eventually joined the Navy. After nine months at sea,
        he took a Mathematics test and scored the highest marks. He
        returned to studying, earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees
        in Physics and a doctorate in Computer Science, and became
        a university professor.
           Clark’s research enabled computers to display graphics
        quickly. He founded Silicon Graphics and the company
        become a world leader in movie special effects, such as those
        seen in Star Wars.
           In 1994, after falling out with Silicon Graphics, Clark hap-
        pened to e-mail Marc Andreessen, a 22-year-old software
        whiz who developed the Mosaic Web browser. Together, they
        founded Netscape — and thus began the Internet revolution.


        Orville Wright (1871–1948)/
        Wilbur Wright (1867–1912)
        The Wright brothers, both of whom had high school educa-
        tion but never received their diplomas, made the first
        flight on 17 December 1903 in a “flying machine”. They later
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 118
        FA


        118   SUCCESS SECRETS

        developed the world’s first practical airplane and achieved
        many other aviation milestones.
           Their interest in flight was sparked by a toy “helicopter”,
        which their father had bought. They played with it until it
        broke, then built their own.
           In his late teens, Wilbur was struck in the head by a hockey
        stick in an accident. He became withdrawn and spent the
        next few years at home caring for his sick mother. He did not
        attend Yale University as planned, but read extensively in his
        father’s library.
           Wilbur later joined the printing business that Orville had
        started, but seemed to have no particular ambitions. They
        then opened a bicycle repair, design and manufacturing
        company in 1892, and they used the workshop for their
        flight experiments.


        Winston Churchill (1874–1965)
        Churchill, the British Prime Minister during World War II, is
        widely regarded as the country’s greatest Prime Minister of
        all time.
           As a young boy, he sat for the entrance examination for
        Harrow School, a public school in London. When he took
        the Latin paper, a young Churchill carefully wrote the title,
        his name, and the number 1 followed by a dot — and
        nothing else!
           Despite this, he was accepted at Harrow but placed at
        the bottom division. He generally did badly and was often
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 119
                                                                      FA


                                                    Famous Failures   119

        punished for poor work and lack of effort. He failed some
        courses several times and refused to study the classics —
        Latin and Ancient Greek. But he excelled in English and also
        sometimes topped his class in History and Mathematics.
           Churchill attended the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst
        and joined the army at age 20. In 1899, at age 25, he entered
        politics but failed to get elected, and subsequently worked as
        a newspaper war correspondent.
           Churchill was elected to Parliament in 1900 and became
        Prime Minister only 40 years later, during World War II.
        Britain had lost confidence in the way Neville Chamberlain,
        who was then Prime Minister, was handling the war. On 10
        May 1940, Chamberlain resigned.
           Chamberlain wanted a successor who would command
        the support of all three major parties in the House of
        Commons. After meeting with the other two party leaders, he
        asked Churchill to be Prime Minister and form an all-party
        government.
           Two lesser-known facts about Churchill are worth high-
        lighting: (1) he became Prime Minister again from 1951 to
        1955; and (2) he also won the Nobel Prize for Literature in
        1953 for his many books on English and world history.


        Wernher von Braun (1912–1977)
        Von Braun, regarded as the father of the United States space
        programme, never did well in Physics and Mathematics —
        until he was inspired by a book, Die Rakete zu den
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 120
        FA


        120   SUCCESS SECRETS

        Planetenräumen (The Rocket into Interplanetary Space) by
        rocket pioneer Hermann Oberth. From then on, he applied
        himself fully in order to understand the two subjects and
        eventually obtained a PhD in Physics.
           One anecdote tells of a 12-year-old von Braun being
        inspired by the Chinese legend of Wan Hu, “the world’s first
        astronaut”. According to legend, early in the 16th century,
        Wan Hu decided to launch himself into outer space using
        China’s advanced rocket and fireworks technology. He had a
        chair built with 47 rockets attached. On the day of lift-off,
        Wan Hu climbed into his rocket chair and 47 servants lit the
        fuses and ran for cover. There was a huge explosion. When
        the smoke cleared, Wan Hu and the chair were gone!
           After reading this legend, von Braun fired off a toy wagon
        to which he had attached a number of firecrackers. He was
        taken into custody by the local police until his father came to
        collect him.
           Von Braun led Germany’s rocket development pro-
        gramme before and during World War II. Towards the end
        of the war, he migrated to the US where he worked on the
        American Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) pro-
        gramme. He then joined the National Aeronautics and Space
        Administration (NASA), where he served as Director.


        Walt Disney (1901–1966)
        Walt Disney, the creator of Disneyland and Mickey Mouse,
        spent most of his childhood days playing on a farm. His
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd    3/4/2008    3:36 PM      Page 121
                                                                           FA


                                                         Famous Failures   121

        father’s ill health led to the family selling their farm and
        moving to the city. There, they purchased a newspaper route
        and Disney and his brother had to wake up at 3 a.m. every
        morning to deliver newspapers.
           Disney began attending grammar school in 1910, and later
        enrolled in classes at the Kansas City Art Institute. Because
        of his early-morning newspaper runs, he often fell asleep in
        class and was prone to daydreaming and doodling.
           In high school, Disney was the cartoonist for the school
        newspaper, The Village Voice. He also began taking night
        courses at the Chicago Art Institute.
           Disney dropped out of high school at age 16 to join the
        US Army, but was too young to enlist. Later, he tried to join
        the American Red Cross and the St John’s Ambulance, and
        finally got in by forging his birth certificate, changing his
        birth date from 1901 to 1900.
           Ray Croc, the founder of MacDonald’s, was a buddy of
        Disney in the army. He once commented:

          “Whenever we had time off and went on the town to chase girls, he
          stayed in the camp drawing pictures.”



        Pablo Picasso (1881–1973)
        Picasso is not only one of the best known modern artists, but
        also the most prolific — with about 13,500 paintings,
        100,000 prints and engravings, 34,000 book illustrations and
        300 sculptures. Given that many of the prints and ceramics
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 122
        FA


        122   SUCCESS SECRETS

        were released in an average of 75 editions, the total number
        of original Picasso works is over a quarter of a million.
           Picasso’s father was an art teacher and he attended mostly
        art schools where his father taught. He never finished his
        college-level course of study at the Academia de San Fernando
        (Academy of Arts) in Madrid, leaving after less than a year.
           As an interesting side-note, Picasso also suffered from
        dyslexia, a learning disorder which causes difficulty with
        reading and writing.


        Gamal Abdel Nasser (1918–1970)
        Nasser, President of Egypt from 1956 to 1970 and considered
        one of the greatest Arab leaders in history, failed six times
        during his first nine years of schooling. The reason for this?
        Politics.
           Nasser became interested — and actively involved — in
        politics when he was only 11 years old, and attended his first
        political demonstration while still a schoolboy. During his
        last year of secondary school, he reportedly spent only 45 days
        actually in school. In 1935–1936, he was chairman of a com-
        mittee of Cairo secondary school students interested in
        Egyptian political reform.
           In 1937, he joined the Egyptian Military Academy and, for
        a while, abandoned his political activities. After World War
        II, he worked to organise reform-minded military officers
        and in 1949, the group adopted the name Free Officers. On
        23 July 1952, Nasser and the Free Officers launched a coup
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 123
                                                                      FA


                                                    Famous Failures   123

        and installed General Muhammad Naguib as President and
        Prime Minister.
           A conflict between Naguib and Nasser led to Naguib’s res-
        ignation on 23 February 1954. Nasser was subsequently pro-
        claimed Prime Minister. However, popular demonstrations
        forced him to hold free elections. Naguib won the elections
        and reassumed the Presidency, after which Nasser resigned.
           During his brief time as Prime Minister, however, Nasser
        had purged pro-Naguib elements in the army. Finally, in
        October 1954, Nasser removed Naguib from power and
        established himself as the effective military dictator of Egypt.
        In 1956, he became President.
           Nasser made a “colossal blunder” in 1967 by provoking
        the Six Days War with Israel. This crisis led to his resigna-
        tion, but Nasser was later recalled to power by massive pub-
        lic protests in the streets. He continued to serve as President
        until his death in 1970.


        Milton Snavely Hershey
        (1857–1945)
        Hershey founded the Hershey Chocolate Company (today
        called The Hershey Company), the largest chocolate com-
        pany in the world.
           As a young boy, Hershey attended several one-room
        schoolhouses, but stopped formal schooling before the fifth
        grade when his father made him an apprentice in the print-
        ing trade.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 124
        FA


        124   SUCCESS SECRETS

           He left shortly after to work as an apprentice confectioner
        in Lancaster and, before he was 20 years old, established his
        own candy business. Later, he learnt the art of making fine
        caramel and set up the Lancaster Caramel Company.
           Hershey attended the 1893 World Fair in Chicago.
        Impressed by a German-made chocolate-making machine,
        he bought it immediately and, in 1894, created the Hershey
        Chocolate Company.
           In 1900, he sold the caramel business for $1 million. With
        that money, he purchased 1,200 acres of land, with an
        abundant supply of fresh milk from nearby farms, to mass-
        produce milk chocolate.
           As the company prospered, he developed a company
        town. Today, the town of Hershey prides itself as “the sweet-
        est place on earth”.


        Hans Christian Andersen
        (1805–1875)
        Hans Christian Andersen, the Danish writer and poet
        famous for his fairy tales, grew up in poverty. His father was
        a sickly shoemaker and his mother, an alcoholic. The entire
        family lived and slept in a single tiny room.
           Andersen displayed great intelligence and imagination as a
        young boy. However, his father died when he was 11 and the
        young Andersen had to start earning a living. He worked as an
        apprentice weaver and a tailor, and later in a cigarette factory.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 125
                                                                      FA


                                                    Famous Failures   125

           At 14, with his young soprano voice, Andersen became
        an actor in the Royal Danish Theatre. His career ended when
        his voice broke, and a colleague referred him to a poet.
        Andersen then began to write.
           A chance meeting with King Frederick VI of Denmark was
        to change his life. The King took an interest in Andersen and
        sent him to grammar school.
           Andersen was said to have been a backward and unwilling
        pupil, possibly with a learning disability. He was much older
        and the odd man out among his fellow students. He later
        stated that his schooling years were the darkest and most bit-
        ter parts of his life.
           Before he went to school, however, Andersen had already
        published his first story, The Ghost at Palnatoke’s Grave, in
        1822.


        Frank Lloyd Wright (1867–1957)
        Wright, one of the most famous and influential architects of
        the early 20th century, spent a great deal of his childhood
        playing with educational blocks developed by Friedrich
        Fröbel, a German educator who coined the word “kinder-
        garten”. Popularly known as Fröbel blocks, they had a great
        influence on Wright’s approach to architectural design.
           In 1885, at age 18, Wright attended the University of
        Wisconsin School for Engineering. But he left in 1887 with-
        out taking a degree. While at university, he worked as an
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 126
        FA


        126   SUCCESS SECRETS

        apprentice to a builder and professor of civil engineering,
        and later at an architectural firm.
          Wright is best known for practicising “organic architec-
        ture”, a term he coined. This is a philosophy of architecture
        which promotes harmony between human habitation and the
        natural world, so that buildings, furnishings and surround-
        ings become part of a unified, inter-related composition.
          In 1955, the University of Winconsin granted Wright an
        Honorary Doctorate in Fine Arts.


        Dhirubhai Ambani (1932–2002)
        Ambani built, from scratch, India’s largest privately-
        controlled corporate empire, the Reliance Group. He was
        the son of a poorly-paid village schoolteacher and, at 16, he
        stopped schooling after the 10th grade to join his elder
        brother in Aden, Yemen.
           Ambani worked there as a gas-station attendant and later
        as a clerk in an oil company. Ten years later, he returned
        to India and started Reliance with a capital of Rs15,000
        (US$375).
           Over time, the business grew and diversified. Reliance
        now has interests in petrochemicals, telecommunications,
        information technology, energy, power, retail, textiles,
        infrastructure services, capital markets and logistics.
           Reliance is the first privately-owned Indian company to
        make the Fortune 500 list. At the time of Ambani’s death in
        2002, Reliance had an annual turnover of US$12.3 billion
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 127
                                                                      FA


                                                    Famous Failures   127

        and an 85,000-strong workforce. The company has 4 million
        shareholders, and it holds its annual shareholders’ meeting
        in a Bombay football stadium.
           A poll conducted by The Times of India in 2000 named
        Ambani “the greatest creator of wealth in the century”.


        Li Ka Shing (1928–)
        Li, a Hong Kong entrepreneur said to be the richest man of
        Chinese descent, was the son of a primary school head. Yet,
        he had little opportunity for education. Li stopped schooling
        in 1940 when Japan invaded China, and his family fled to
        Hong Kong. He was then 12 years old. At 15, his father died
        of tuberculosis and Li had to support himself and his family.
           In Hong Kong, Li’s first job was selling watches at his
        uncle’s store. His hard work made him the best salesman at
        age 17, and general manager at age 19. He then left to join
        another company to sell metal wares. He was said to have
        been so successful that his sales commission was seven times
        that of the second best salesman.
           When he was 21, Li opened a factory to produce plastic
        flowers, and he soon became the largest supplier of plastic
        flowers in Asia. In 1958, when his landlord raised the rent, Li
        decided to develop his own property. Thus began his venture
        into real estate.
           Today, his real estate company, Cheung Kong, is the biggest
        landowner in Hong Kong, responsible for developing one
        out of every 12 households. The various Cheung Kong
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 128
        FA


        128   SUCCESS SECRETS

        companies account for more than 11 percent of the Hong
        Kong Stock Exchange.
           In Hong Kong, it is said that out of every dollar spent, five
        cents go to Li’s coffers. He controls property, banking, con-
        struction, plastics, cellular phones, satellite television,
        cement production, retail (pharmacies and supermarkets),
        hotels, domestic transportation (sky train), airports, electric
        power, steel production, ports and shipping.
           Hutchison Whampoa, another of Li’s companies, controls
        12 percent of all container port capacity in the world, includ-
        ing ports in Hong Kong, China, Rotterdam, Panama and
        Bahamas. It is also the world’s largest retailer of health and
        beauty products, including the A S Watson group, with over
        6,800 stores.
           Li is ranked by Forbes Magazine as the 10th richest man in
        the world and the richest man of Chinese descent. In 2006,
        Li became the first recipient of the Malcolm S. Forbes
        Lifetime Achievement Award for his entrepreneurship and
        business success. To his fellow residents of Hong Kong, Li is
        “Superman”.


        Konosuke Matsushita (1894–1989)
        Matsushita, founder of Matsushita Electric (one of the world’s
        largest manufacturers of electrical and electronic goods), not
        only grew up poor and had limited education, but he actu-
        ally decided not to study — and he never regretted it.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd       3/4/2008   3:36 PM     Page 129
                                                                                  FA


                                                              Famous Failures     129

           At age 9, he had to leave his family to work in another city.
        A chance to study arose when Matsushita was 11 years old.
        His sister had found work as a clerk in the postal savings
        bureau and the bureau advertised for an office boy.
           His sister and mother thought he should apply for the job,
        as it provided an opportunity for education. But his father
        told him:


          “You should continue your apprenticeship because, in time, you can
          start your own business and become independent. I believe this is the
          best option for you; don’t change course mid-stream.
             I know many people who cannot even write their own letters, but
          they are good businessmen and they can afford to hire people to do
          such tasks. If you succeed in business, you can employ people to make
          up for the skills you lack. Don’t throw yourself in an office boy job that
          has no future.”


          Looking back, Matsushita saw that his father was right.
        He said:


          “Had I quit my apprenticeship and become an office boy, I might not
          have become what I am today.”


          When he was in his early 20s, Matsushita started his busi-
        ness with the equivalent of US$50, went to the verge of
        bankruptcy, and eventually grew it to having assets worth
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 130
        FA


        130   SUCCESS SECRETS

        US$42 billion at the time of his death. His personal wealth
        was a staggering US$3 billion.
           Despite his limited education, Matsushita also became
        highly respected as a management guru and philosopher. In
        1979, he established the Matsushita Institute of Government
        and Management, an educational institution whose innova-
        tive approach has been described as avant-garde. The
        Japanese regard Matsushita as “the god of management”.


        Thomas Edison (1847–1931)
        Edison is hailed as the greatest inventor of all time, with
        1,093 patents awarded in his name, including the light bulb
        and the entire system for generating and distributing elec-
        tricity. He is credited with “inventing” the Modern Age.
           Edison is regarded as a genius. Yet some medical experts
        speculate that he might have been plagued by serious learn-
        ing difficulties because, in spite of his brilliant mind, he
        was strangely weak in areas such as cognition, speech and
        grammar.
           In school, Edison displayed symptoms of what is nowadays
        called Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, or ADHD.
        His teachers frequently lost patience with him and, noting
        that Edison had an exceptionally broad forehead, concluded
        that his brain must have been “scrambled”. His mother,
        however, was convinced that his large forehead was a sign of
        superior intelligence. Whether Edison was intelligent or
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 131
                                                                      FA


                                                    Famous Failures   131

        mentally handicapped, he was always thinking differently
        from other people. He was always “thinking out of the box”.
           Edison was largely taught at home by his mother. He read
        history, literature, general science and chemistry, and was
        fond of poetry. At one stage, a young Edison even planned
        to read every book on his father’s bookshelf, and his parents
        had to direct him to be more selective.
           From young, he was always experimenting. He set up his
        laboratory in the basement of his home, but his mother soon
        complained about the strong smell of chemicals and the
        dangers they posed.
           At that time, Edison had started working on a train —
        he sold newspapers, snacks and candy and had other chil-
        dren sell fruits and vegetables. At 14, he published his own
        newspaper, the first ever to be typeset, printed and sold on
        a train.
           So he moved his chemicals to a train cabin. During one
        bumpy journey, some phosphorus dropped on the floor and
        ignited. The angry conductor hit Edison on the head, aggra-
        vating his hearing loss sustained from scarlet fever. Yet, being
        deaf did not stop Edison from later producing one of the
        greatest inventions related to sound — the phonograph.
           In 1869, Edison was working as a telegrapher with Western
        Union and he was about to be fired for spending too much
        time on his experiments. At age 22, he resigned to become a
        full-time inventor. By 29, he had more than a hundred
        patents to his name.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 132
        FA


        132   SUCCESS SECRETS

           In 1879, after hundreds of experiments, Edison produced
        a light bulb that could last 13 hours. He eventually
        improved it until it could last over a hundred hours. On
        4 September 1882, Edison opened the world’s first com-
        mercial electric power station for electric lighting, at Pearl
        Street, New York — the Modern Age dawned.


        Jimmy Lai Chee Ying (1948–)
        Lai founded one of East Asia’s most successful clothing chains,
        Giordano, as well as two of Hong Kong’s and Taiwan’s most
        widely-read publications, Next Magazine and Apple Daily
        newspaper.
           Born in China, Lai grew up in poverty and dropped out of
        school after the fifth grade. He was, in his own words, “just
        selling things on the street, stealing things.”
           Despite his lack of formal education, Lai is a voracious
        reader and a self-taught intellectual who names the Austrian
        free-market economist, Friedrich von Hayek, as his intellec-
        tual mentor.
           Lai first made his fortune through Giordano, a retailer of
        affordable clothing widely seen as Hong Kong’s version of
        Gap, Inc. The company he founded in 1981, but no longer
        owns, today has over 1,500 stores in 31 countries.
           Outraged by the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre in
        Beijing, Lai decided to launch a magazine that would give a
        voice to Hong Kong’s hopes and fears at a critical juncture in
        its history.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 133
                                                                      FA


                                                    Famous Failures   133

          The magazine, Next, made its debut in 1990. It has been
        described as “brash and controversial”, but was an instant
        success. So was Lai’s Apple Daily newspaper, which carried
        both racy and academic articles. At its launch in 1995,
        200,000 copies of Apple Daily were sold within hours. Lai
        has since repeated the same success with Taiwan editions of
        Next and Apple Daily.


        Agatha Christie (1890–1976)
        Christie, by far the bestselling English fiction writer of all
        time, received no formal education. She was taught at home
        by her mother, who encouraged her to write from an early
        age. At 16, she learnt singing and piano at school in Paris.
        She was an accomplished pianist, but stage fright and shy-
        ness prevented her from pursuing a career in music.
           In a writing career that spanned 56 years, Christie wrote
        more than 80 books, most of which were detective mystery
        novels, earning her the title, “Queen of Crime”. She is con-
        servatively estimated to have sold more than two billion
        copies of her books in the English language, plus another
        one billion in translations in 103 languages. Only the Bible
        and the works of William Shakespeare have sold more
        copies.
           A stage play by Christie, The Mousetrap, holds the record
        for the longest run ever in London. It opened in November
        1952, and as of 2006, is still running after more than 20,000
        performances.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 134
        FA


        134   SUCCESS SECRETS

          In 1971, she was named Dame Commander of the British
        Empire.


        Celine Dion (1968–)
        Celine Dion is one of the bestselling female pop artists of all
        time, best known for “My Heart Will Go On”, the theme
        from the movie, Titanic.
           Dion grew up as the youngest in a poverty-stricken family
        of 14 children. She had little or no education, but her family
        was musically talented and, at age 5, she began singing in a
        small piano bar owned by her parents.
           At 12, she recorded her first song in French. Her brother
        sent a copy of the recording to a music manager, René
        Angélil. Angélil was brought to tears by Dion’s voice. He
        decided to make her a star and even mortgaged his home to
        fund her first record, “La Voix Du Bon Dieu”. Dion became
        an instant star, and Angélil later became her husband.
           At 18, Dion watched Michael Jackson perform and she
        wanted to be like him. Angélil felt that in order for her to be
        marketed worldwide, she needed to change her image. Dion
        was sent to school to improve her English, where she learnt
        the language in three months.
           Besides numerous Academy and Grammy awards, Dion
        won the Chopard Diamond award in 2004, which is pre-
        sented to artists who have sold over 100 million albums.
        Dion had in fact sold 175 million albums! As of 2005, only
        three artists have earned the Chopard Diamond.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 135
                                                                      FA


                                                    Famous Failures   135

        Arthur Henderson (1863–1935)
        Henderson is the British union leader who co-founded the
        Labour Party. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1934.
           Henderson’s father, a manual worker, died when he was
        9 years old , leaving the family in poverty. He left school to
        work in a photographer’s shop, and later returned to school
        for another three years when his mother remarried.
           At 12, Henderson stopped schooling completely. He first
        worked at a locomotive factory and, at 17, at a foundry. The
        dinner hour in the foundry, with its lively discussions,
        became his classroom. The newspapers were his textbooks.
           Henderson developed his speaking skills from being a lay
        preacher and from joining a debating society. This helped
        launch his political career, which began with him joining the
        trade unions in 1892.
           In 1900, Henderson was one of the 129 trade union and
        socialist delegates who created the Labour Representation
        Committee (LRC). In 1906, the LRC changed its name to the
        Labour Party. As a unionist, Henderson believed that strikes
        caused more harm than they were worth, and tried to avoid
        them whenever possible.


        Soichiro Honda (1906–1991)
        Soichiro Honda, founder of Honda Motors, spent his early
        childhood helping his father with his bicycle repair business.
        At 15, he went to Tokyo to find work, and became an
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 136
        FA


        136   SUCCESS SECRETS

        apprentice in a garage. At 22, he returned home to set up his
        own auto repair shop.
           Honda had little schooling. But he was known to be tech-
        nically ingenious. Once, he used a bicycle pedal rubber to
        forge his family’s seal on school reports that showed him to
        be a poor student.
           What Honda had was passion — a passion for racing,
        which earned him a speed record in 1936 and later also
        resulted in an accident that left him with broken bones.
           His wife persuaded him to stop racing, and he thereafter
        concentrated on his business. In 1937, Honda started manu-
        facturing piston rings. In 1948, he sold the piston business to
        Toyota and started producing motorcycles.
           Today, Honda produces the world’s bestselling motorcy-
        cles, as well as scooters, cars and trucks. The company is also
        the largest engine maker in the world, with over 14 million
        internal combustion engines built each year.


        Leo Tolstoy (1828–1910)
        Tolstoy is regarded as one of the greatest novelists of all time,
        noted for his masterpieces, War and Peace and Anna Karenina.
           Tolstoy studied law and oriental languages at university,
        but his teachers described him as “both unable and unwilling
        to learn”. He left university without graduating, and spent his
        time during and after university in pleasure-seeking — with
        wine, women and gambling.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 137
                                                                      FA


                                                    Famous Failures   137

          Apart from his epic novels, Tolstoy was also noted for his
        ideas on non-violent resistance. He was a major influence on
        people such as Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King, Jr.


        Abraham Lincoln (1809–1865)
        Lincoln, who is widely regarded as the greatest American
        president of all time, was born to illiterate farmers. He
        received only about 18 months of formal schooling. Instead,
        he was largely self-educated and studied every book he could
        borrow, including the Bible, Shakespeare, English history
        and American history.
           As an adult, however, Lincoln taught himself law and was
        admitted to the bar in 1837, at age 26. He worked as a lawyer
        for 20 years and became one of the most prominent lawyers
        in the state. But he was never successful in financial terms.
        At times, he convinced his clients to settle their cases out of
        court, thus earning himself nothing. Often, he declined to
        collect his legal fees from clients who were poor. In fact,
        until he was elected US President in 1860, Lincoln was
        largely unsuccessful in his businesses, careers and political
        pursuits.
           As President, Lincoln preserved the unity of the United
        States of America by leading the government to victory in a
        Civil War (1860–1864) that had threatened to divide the
        country. He also ended slavery, granting freedom to some
        four million African-Americans.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 138
        FA


        138   SUCCESS SECRETS

           It has been said that no American president faced a greater
        crisis than Lincoln did during the Civil War, and no
        American president has accomplished as much.
           Noted for his memorable speeches as well, his most
        famous, and most often quoted, speech is the Gettysburg
        Address (1863). It was a short, two-minute speech which
        closed with him speaking of democracy as “government of
        the people, by the people, for the people.”
           Lincoln is consistently ranked the greatest American pres-
        ident of all time. Between 1948 and 2005, 11 major polls
        were taken of historians, political scientists and other schol-
        ars. Lincoln was ranked top in five of the surveys, second in
        another five, and third in one. Lincoln also came out top in
        two out of three recent public opinion polls, one conducted
        in 2000 and the other two in 2005.
           Most of all, Lincoln is remembered and loved as a man of
        integrity and sincerity. His most popular nickname is
        “Honest Abe”.


        Benjamin Franklin (1706–1790)
        Franklin was a scientist, inventor, statesman, civic leader,
        writer, businessman and more. He was considered one of the
        greatest minds of the 18th century.
           Yet, Franklin had minimal education as he came from a
        large family. He attended less than a year of grammar school.
        Although he did well and was promoted to the second year
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 139
                                                                      FA


                                                    Famous Failures   139

        before he had completed the first, he left school before the
        year was up. He then studied another year in a private
        school — where he learnt reading and writing but failed
        Arithmetic — before he stopped schooling completely.
           He was, however, very fond of reading. He could read
        from a very young age and spent all his free time during his
        youth reading. Whatever money he had, he used it to buy
        books.
           Franklin regularly networked with other intellectuals. At
        age 21, he established Junto, a society of young men who met
        on Friday evenings for self-improvement, study and socialis-
        ing. It was from the Junto that many of Franklin’s ideas and
        civic projects arose. This included support for the use of
        printed currency and the establishment of a public library,
        fire brigade, fire insurance, etc.
           In 1743, he established the American Philosophical Society
        to network with learned people from around the world.
           Franklin devoted his entire life to learning and self-
        improvement. His two final inventions, which came when
        he was close to 80 years old, were both for the pursuit of
        knowledge. One was a “long arm” for taking books from
        high shelves. The other was bifocal lenses to help him read
        better.
b566v2_Chapter-06.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 140
        FA
b566v2_Chapter-07.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM          Page 141
                                                                 FA




                                     7  E P
                                    S           R
                                        I   A


                         Be Inspired!


        There are two possible ways to respond to the stories of
        Benjamin Franklin, Abraham Lincoln and all the other
        “famous failures” mentioned in the previous chapter. One
        way is to think of all the reasons why we cannot seem to suc-
        ceed like them. Perhaps they lived in a different era, or had
        other special reasons for their extraordinary success.
           Think again. Today, even the average school dropout has
        six or more years of schooling, much more than many of the
        “famous failures”. Most of us also have free or low-cost
        access to hundreds of thousands of books in public libraries.
        With the Internet, our access to knowledge and information
        is greater than ever before.
           The point is not to compare. When we look at others, they
        will always be better off than us in some ways, worse off in
        others, and yet similar in many ways.



                                        141
b566v2_Chapter-07.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 142
        FA


        142   SUCCESS SECRETS

            A more appropriate response to an outstanding success
        would be to be inspired — inspired to achieve similar levels
        of success and excellence, with or without education.
            There is no secret to this. The “famous failures” achieved
        their success by having a Prizedream and working hard for
        it. They lived by their own internal rules, such as being dif-
        ferent and taking control of their life situations. They took
        advantage of opportunities that passed their way, and also
        created opportunities for themselves.
            The “famous failures” possessed many of the qualities of a
        leader, such as wisdom, sincerity, strictness and benevolence.
        They devised strategies to turn setbacks into advantages.
        They worked hard for success until it became their habit and
        part of their character, and achieved cycle after cycle of suc-
        cess unlimited.
            These are not extraordinary measures. They are ordinary
        things that you and I can do. There is a PRAISE Champion
        in each and every one of us, just as there was one in each of
        the “famous failures”. What they did was merely to nourish
        that PRAISE Champion and allow it to emerge and manifest
        itself in their lives. Many people have done it, and so can you.
            This is not to say that it will be easy. Just as there is a
        PRAISE Champion inside us, there is also a “robber” inside
        us who would deny us our potential for success and great-
        ness. It is not easy to remove this robber, as the robber may
        be very deeply entrenched.
b566v2_Chapter-07.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 143
                                                                       FA


                                                        Be Inspired!   143

           Like many people, I was once ruled by this robber. I was
        very, very far from achieving success and excellence. But
        because I had a strong desire to excel, I slowly climbed out of
        my failure and misery. I changed my environment and,
        instead of being surrounded by equal failures, I began to sur-
        round myself with friends who were able to help me, and
        genuine in wanting to do so.
           I do not believe in making false promises and telling you
        that just because you have read this book, you can, overnight,
        become an extraordinary success. Perhaps some of you can.
        But for most of us, it is going to take some time.
           But you can make a start — by aiming for small successes.
           PRAISE will help you escape mediocrity and conformity
        to lead yourself to accomplish your own unique vision by
        unlocking your hidden potential.
           PRAISE has helped me achieve excellence and success
        in the past 20 years and counting, in different facets of my
        life — studies, examinations, career and entrepreneurship.
        It also helped me overcome other life’s challenges, such as
        when I climbed Mount Sinai, the “Mountain of Moses”.
        More recently, PRAISE enabled me to embark on a new
        adventure to become a writer and publisher.
           I may not be a “famous failure”, but I am certainly one
        “failure” who succeeded in life. My wish is to inspire you to
        draw out the PRAISE champion that dwells inside you, and
        that you might inspire others to do the same.
b566v2_Chapter-07.qxd   3/4/2008   3:36 PM   Page 144
        FA


        144    SUCCESS SECRETS

            Let us inspire one another!

            PRAISE is simple, yet powerful.
            Use it or miss it. The choice is yours.
            Think. Reflect. Engage.

        The Self
        Influenced by SADDLE

        •   Self-pity
        •   Arrogance
        •   Daydreams
        •   Distractions
        •   Laziness
        •   Exaggerated fear

        Adopts PRAISE
        •   Prizedream
        •   Rules
        •   Analysis
        •   Invincibility
        •   Strategy
        •   Excellence

        Acquires six SUCCESS formulas
        • Change
        • Creativity


                                                                                                               Be Inspired!        145

        •   Passion
        •   Fulfilment
        •   Learning
        •   Excellence

        For a lifetime!



                                     8
                 Sixteen Soulprints
                 (Excerpts from Soulprints I —
                        BreakThrough )



         1. Endurance
             My mother put me down, went to the doorway and came
             back carrying her pair of slippers. I never noticed them
             before. They were worn out with holes. For the first time
             too, I saw the soles of her feet — rough, ugly soles, too ugly
             for a lady. “It is all about endurance,” my mother said.

         2. Self-reliance
             It occurred to me that I had obtained the slippers through
             my own means. I felt very proud of myself. Earlier, I was
             thinking that the trishaw boy knew how to make money.
             I realised that I had done the same — I had sold my
             champion spider for $2.

                                       147


        148    SUCCESS SECRETS

         3. Self-acceptance
              I felt great respect for the one-legged man who endured
              the difficulty of moving about with crutches. Even though
              he did not talk much with anyone, he did not look very
              sad either. He seemed to have accepted his fate. It was all
              about accepting oneself.

         4. Resilience
              My mother had to learn to swallow her tears. Her daugh-
              ter had run away. Her twin sons had dashed her hopes.
              But she had to learn to bear with the pain and get up
              every time she was hit, as the family still needed her. It
              was all about resilience.

         5. Determination
              I continued to squat on the beach and watch the waves
              come and go. As one wave subsided, the next wave came.
              They never gave up. They seemed to be telling me never to
              give up too.

         6. Perseverance
              The tear-jerking reunion between mother and Phoenix
              left a deep imprint in my memory. Seeing how my
              mother’s persistent efforts paid off in changing Phoenix’s
              attitude affected me in a deep way even as a child. It
              taught me to have faith in persevering.
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 149
                                                                        FA


                                                   Sixteen Soulprints   149

         7. Trustworthiness
             I finally understood where my mother had obtained her
             money from. She must have managed to borrow from
             friends and relatives. They trusted her because she was a
             lady of her word. It was all about trustworthiness.

         8. Love
             She was determined that I should not lose my arm. She
             wanted me to be able to lead a normal life. She wanted all
             this for me when nobody else in the family cared as much,
             or simply did not care at all. Love propels one to action.
             Love conquers all.

         9. Self-discipline
             That thin, underweight and undernourished primary
             school boy had now become the “Strong Boy”. I was
             proud of my transformation. It made me realise that,
             with self-discipline, it was possible to change myself for
             the better.

        10. Humility
             If there was anything I had learnt from my experience
             with my tutor, Victor, it was humility. One should always
             maintain humility whether one has achieved success or
             encountered a setback. With humility, one can improve
             and move on in life.
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 150
        FA


        150    SUCCESS SECRETS

        11. Helpfulness
              I told the class about Hwa’s plight and urged my class-
              mates, as well as my friends from the other classes, to
              donate whatever money they could. Helping a person
              from the heart produced such a wonderful feeling. It was
              all about helpfulness.

        12. Backbone
              She feared that if I took up Rachael’s loans, I would be
              indebted to her for life. My mother thus made her position
              very clear. If I wanted to go overseas for my studies, I must
              rely on my own means to do so. It was all about backbone.

        13. Steadfastness
              My mother also believed that, eventually, things would
              turn out well. Her marriage to my father took a very long
              time to improve, but already, my father had become a
              changed man.

        14. Vigilance
              She always had to be on the lookout for surprise raids,
              since her bread stall was unlicensed. At first, she would cut
              her fingers because she had to be vigilant and cut bread at
              the same time. Likewise for my two sisters. But after a
              while, they got used to it.
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 151
                                                                        FA


                                                   Sixteen Soulprints   151

        15. Invincibility
             My mother said she had failed so many times in her
             lifetime. But she always bounced back. As much as she
             wanted me to succeed, my mother wanted me to be able
             to bounce back from failure. It’s all about not being
             defeated by failure.

        16. Modesty
             My mother advised me to be modest about my achieve-
             ments. When her bread stall became profitable, she did
             not like to boast about how much she earned. Because of
             my mother’s modesty, some customers would rather queue
             up to buy bread from her.
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008    12:51 PM    Page 152
        FA




               My Soulprints


                            Endurance
                          Self-reliance
                        Self-acceptance
                    Resilience
                   Determination
                    Perseverance
                        Trustworthiness
                          Love
                            Self-discipline
                                 Humility
                                  Helpfulness
                                  Backbone
                                 Steadfastness
                              Vigilance
                            Invincibility
                          Modesty
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 153
                                                                   FA




              I hear the wind and the rain beating against the
                 leaves; but I continue to play my flute and
                         move on through the trees.
             A bamboo walking stick and a pair of straw shoes
              make a journey lighter than riding on a horse;
              what’s there to fear when a straw hat takes me
                 through the wind and rain throughout
                            my journey in life.
            A gust of wind in the spring wakes me up; the wind
                is a little cold but the oblique rays from the
                            mountains warm me up.
              I look back at the tumultuous road which I had
                just travelled; they are all gone: the wind, the
                                rain and the sun.
                         — Su Dong Po (1037–1101)
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 154
        FA
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 155
                                                              FA




                           Thank You


                          for reading this book.
                      We hope you have enjoyed it.
                We shall be happy to receive your feedback
                    and be of further service to you.
                           Please contact us at:

                  World Scientific Publishing Co. Pte. Ltd.
                             5 Toh Tuck Link
                            Singapore 596224
                           Tel: (+65) 64665775
                           Fax: (+65) 64677667
                     http://www.worldscientific.com
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 156
        FA




          A Journey of resilience and hope

                          AVAILABLE NOW!

                                    In a neighbourhood ruled by gang-
                                    sters, George Tan grew up well-
                                    acquainted with gambling and the
                                    3 V’s: vulgarism, vandalism and
                                    violence.

                                  He broke free. From red marks in
                                  primary school, George went to
                                  university and, at age 27, whilst
                                  holding a full-time job, topped
                                  his diploma and master’s degree
        classes with flying colours. He went on to succeed in both
        career and business.

        George’s ascent from the depths of hopelessness leaves a trail
        of Soulprints. His life story is interesting, instructive and
        inspirational.
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 157
                                                                   FA




        Endorsements for
        Soulprints I — BreakThrough

        BreakThrough was particularly moving because of your
        graphic, brutally honest description of your early life in
        Singapore. I could not put the book down until I completed
        the last page.
                    – Dr Vivian Balakrishnan, Singapore Minister for
                         Community Development, Youth and Sports


        Very engaging and well-written... sounds a bit like a male
        version of Wild Swans... a compelling story.
                   – Catherine De Vrye, Australian Executive Woman
                                of the Year and bestselling author of
                                     Good Service is Good Business


        This is a wonderful book of courage, perseverance and inspira-
        tion that can take your life to new heights.
                              – Brian Tracy, motivational speaker and
                            bestselling author of Million Dollar Habits


        This book has equal horror and hope. It reminds me of a cross
        between Angela’s Ashes and a treatise on the redemption
        power in all of us — a triumph of human spirit.
                              – James Clemins, bestselling author of
                                 Shadow Fall: Book One of ‘The God
                                                 Slayer Chronicles’
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 158
        FA




                          A bright spark!

                          AVAILABLE NOW!

                                    A 300th birth anniversary tribute
                                    to Benjamin Franklin, a founding
                                    father of the United States of
                                    America, who excelled as a scientist,
                                    inventor, statesman, civic leader,
                                    writer, entrepreneur, philosopher,
                                    philanthropist and more.

                                 Beyond biography, this book
                                 applies the PRAISE life skills
                                 model to examine why and how
        Franklin achieved excellence and success — and what lessons
        he holds for us.

        The world’s greatest men and women all lived by similar
        principles. You, too, can achieve greatness by applying the
        PRAISE model.
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 159
                                                                      FA




        Endorsements for
        Benjamin Franklin — A Bright Spark!

        Clearly, there will be many conferences, books, exhibitions...
        planned for the Franklin 300th. However, there may not be a
        tribute as valuable as Benjamin Franklin — A Bright Spark!
                     – Roy E. Goodman, Curator of Printed Materials,
                       American Philosophical Society, Pennsylvania
                               and President, Friends of Franklin, Inc

        In all of my years studying Franklin… I have never found a
        book as important as this. Every person should read it. Every
        parent should make sure their children read it.
             – Ralph Archbold, the official ‘living Benjamin Franklin’,
                       member of US Federal Commission appointed
              by President George W. Bush and Congress to oversee
               the celebrations of Benjamin Franklin’s 300th birthday

        George Tan capsulises, in this ‘must-read’ book, the heart and
        soul of lifetime success, and then he backs it up with a real-world
        model for implementing that success you won’t easily forget.
           – Anne Bruce, life coach, professional speaker and best-
          selling author of Discover True North: A 4-Week Approach
                   to Ignite Your Passion and Activate Your Potential

        No ordinary biography but a brilliantly researched and excep-
        tional read. Buy it, read it and you will also recommend it.
                        – Richard Denny, top motivational speaker and
                             bestselling author of Succeed for Yourself
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 160
        FA




                Your passport to success

                          AVAILABLE NOW!

                                    These six key concepts can trans-
                                    form your rough life into a rich life:
                                      • Prizedream
                                      • Rules
                                      • Analysis
                                      • Invincibility
                                      • Strategy
                                      • Excellence

                                    PRAISE is a life skills model that
                                    will help you overcome obstacles
                                    and setbacks to achieve excellence
                                    and success.

           An inspirational book, with lots of examples drawn
        from the lives of great achievers in every field of human
        endeavour.
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 161
                                                                     FA




        Endorsements for
        Rough Life Rich Life

        Rough Life Rich Life is a rich book — rich in information, rich
        in wisdom, rich in experiences and, most significantly, rich in
        inspiration.
                                    – Dr Tony Alessandra, bestselling
                                         author of The Platinum Rule,
                           exclusive Speaker Hall of Fame and one of
                            top 20 motivational speakers in the world


        Dream what you want to dream, go where you want to go, be
        what you want to be … George Tan dared to dream. He over-
        came extreme poverty and parental abuse. The life skills model
        that he presents is an invaluable guide to those who strive for
        excellence in spite of the challenges they face.
                           – Michael McGrath, Executive Director and
                           Co-founder of The Muscle Help Foundation


        George Tan, speaking of his Prizedream, is an inspiration to
        many. I find him to be sincere, passionate, and realistic with his
        challenges.
            – Edward Horrell, bestselling author of More Than Words
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 162
        FA




             Success in studies and in life

                          AVAILABLE NOW!

                                    Be inspired by a ‘gangster kid’ who
                                    struggled through primary school,
                                    yet went to university and, at age
                                    27, whilst holding a full-time job,
                                    topped his diploma and master’s
                                    degree classes with flying colours.

                                    The author shows how you can
                                    fully utilise the PRAISE life skills
                                    model to excel in studies and in life.

                                 “The feeling of failure is awful.
        I used to get 22 marks for Mathematics, 19 marks for
        English… Yet I achieved a near perfect score in my master’s
        degree programme. The elation I felt is something I dearly
        want to share.”
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 163
                                                                    FA




        Endorsements for
        Red Marks to Flying Colours

        Red Marks to Flying Colours is more than just a book
        about how to achieve success in school. Author George Tan
        shares his personal experiences of overcoming tremendous
        setbacks in transforming himself from being a gangster kid
        who failed English and Mathematics, to a top student and a
        successful entrepreneur. This book is both instructional and
        inspirational.
                    – Willie Jolley, bestselling author of It Only Takes
                         a Minute to Change Your Life and A Setback
                                            is a Setup for a Comeback!

        Within a few short pages of George Tan’s latest book, I was
        hooked and could not put it down. George presents a life skills
        model for success in studies and beyond, weaving in his engag-
        ing story of how he made that quantum leap from Red Marks
        to Flying Colours. If you need inspiration, this is a must-read.
               – Rev Dr John L. Clements, international speaker and
                    success coach, author of Fruitful Prospects and
                                          Excellence Becomes YOU

        Flying Colours is a book that will inspire and educate, and you
        will enjoy reading it from beginning to end. George’s ideas and
        concepts will motivate anyone to want to be better at their
        career and their life!
                        – Hal Becker, bestselling author of Lip Service
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 164
        FA




                  New you, more success

                          AVAILABLE NOW!

                                    George Tan shares his personal
                                    story about how he progressed
                                    from doing badly in primary
                                    school to topping his class in post-
                                    graduate studies, whilst dealing
                                    with obstacles like poverty and
                                    parental abuse.

                                He also features excerpts of inter-
                                views conducted with other top
                                scholars. Readers can learn about
                                some well-proven study and
        examination techniques as well as factors that either helped,
        hindered or motivated the students in their studies.

        One of the rare “How to . . .” books that addresses the issue
        of motivation and is generously garnished with lots of
        inspiration.
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 165
                                                                   FA




        Endorsements for
        Scholars’ Secrets: How to Get Your A’s

        Scholars’ Secrets is a practical, insightful and engaging
        work that spurs readers to transform their goals and dreams
        into reality.
                                    – Ang Wee Hiong, CEO/Principal of
                                               Hwa Chong Institution


        George Tan has painstakingly charted the reasons why many
        fail in examinations and do not perform to expectations.
        More importantly, he provides a clear and proven path for
        these apparent ‘low performers’ to achieve high results and
        get out of their ‘failure streak’.
                            – Dr Kirpal Singh, academic, writer, critic
                                                  and educationalist


        Students will find this book opens their minds to possibili-
        ties for personal growth, scholastic achievement and self-
        fulfilment.
                           – Vicki de Prazer, Australian Olympic Team
                                        psychologist 1996, 2000, 2004
b566v2_Chapter-08.qxd   3/10/2008   12:51 PM   Page 166
        FA
