School was a paradise for kids. Or so I thought. “Mama, when can I go to school?” I must have asked my mother that question a thousand times — until the day finally came in 1965. I was seven years old and about to enter Primary 1. Then came a rude shock. In fact, a series of rude shocks. My mother took me to school and to a classroom packed with more than 30 other children. Many boys and girls started to cry. Why are they crying? When will we start to play?
When class started, the teacher asked each of us to write letters of the alphabet on the blackboard. I could not even write “A”. The rest of the class laughed at me. During recess, I queued to buy noodles with the precious five-cent coin that my father had given me. When I got to the front, I was told that a bowl of noodles cost 10 cents. I was shocked and sad. I would be able to buy a bowl of noodles only every other day. I saw a water tap at one corner of the canteen. As I drank
I saw, from the corner of my eye, two kids licking rainbow coloured ice-cream. I looked up and I saw them all. There was a long queue at the ice-cream stall. I thought ice-cream was a luxury item which only the rich could afford. These kids were taking ice-cream as freely as I took water from the tap. I learnt a great deal at school, not about English or Arithmetic, but about the have’s and have-not’s. I knew my family was poor. I thought the whole neighbourhood was poor. I learnt that even among the poor, some could afford ice-cream while others could not.
When my younger brother, Little Emperor, went to school the following year, he was given 20 cents daily pocket money. I continued to get five cents until I reached Primary 4, when my allowance was raised to 10 cents. My father was blatantly prejudiced against me. He hated me. He called me suay kia, which, in the Chinese Hokkien dialect, means “child who brings bad luck”. I was his jinx. He would cane his children whenever he was drunk, had lost in gambling, or both. Sometimes, he would strip us naked, tie us up and hang us from a ceiling hook in the living room before caning us.
These were outlets for his frustration. He was deeply frustrated because he had sailed from China to Singapore in search of the good life, but ended up earning a meagre wage as a coolie. Much later, after his death, I was to discover that he had also left behind another family in China. This obviously added to his frustration. He would cane us until the cane split, until our skins split. He would cane his “jinx” more than any other child. Once, he produced a bunch of burning incense and poked them into my face. But he never once caned the Little Emperor, whom he loved. Gambling and the 3 V’s
When I was eight, my family moved to a neighbourhood notorious for its gangsters. And so I became a “gangster kid” addicted to gambling and the 3 V’s — vulgarism, vandalism and violence. Whenever I heard my gambling gang’s special signal — the whistle from the theme music of the movie, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly — I would throw down my books and rush off to gamble. I would gamble even on the eve of my examinations. So, needless to say, I did badly in my studies, scoring as little as 22 marks for Mathematics, 19 marks for English. 
Yet my mother constantly nagged me to become a top student. Her relatives and friends had always looked down on her because her children did badly in school. By the time I was 14, all my brothers had dropped out of school. I became my mother’s last hope to redeem her years of humiliation. Black Socks My most traumatic experience in school, however, had nothing to do with failing examinations and disappointing my mother. It had to do with black socks. “Who says you can wear long black socks to school?” Miss Tigress, my teacher in Primary 3, shouted at me one afternoon.
“My white socks are still wet.” “You mean you only have one pair of socks?” I nodded and decided to tell it all — about how my parents could not even afford to buy me a pair of slippers, how I had to sell my favourite pet, a champion fighting spider, to buy my own slippers, how I had just one pair of white socks. Before I could even get to the part about the spider, Miss Tigress chased me out of the classroom, ordered me to take off my shoes and told me to walk round the school field until she allowed me to stop. I walked for what seemed like hours. I was not allowed to
go for my recess. During recess, hundreds of children were watching me being punished. I could hear jeers, whistles and laughter. My self-esteem sank to its lowest. It would take me another 17 years — when I topped my class in postgraduate studies, not once but twice — before I regained my self-confidence. Rough Life to Rich Life The transformation of my rough life into a rich life began in Secondary 1. Most of my gambling gang had failed Primary 6 and left school. My contact with them gradually decreased. In school, the physical education teacher was a boxing enthusiast 
and a good storyteller. He was my favourite teacher. He would captivate us with stories about the achievements of Muhammed Ali and other sports personalities. I was inspired to want to be like them. Once, the teacher organised a tug-of-war. My team emerged as the champion and I was delighted. I was flattered when the teacher nicknamed me “Strong Boy”. This was my first nickname that affirmed a good attribute. And I wanted to be known as a “Good Boy” too. I wanted to get rid of the 3 V’s and gambling. I decided to first tackle vulgarism. I told my friends and
brothers that if they should hear a single vulgar word from me, I would have to pay them five cents. All the five cents quickly added up and I began to accumulate debts. It took me several months to pay up and to stop my vulgarism. This was a small, but important, victory for me. Gambling was the toughest vice to give up. I finally quit the habit only several years later, when I was at pre-university. 
